Today I'm here with Eric Jen who was
most recently vice president of AI at 1x
Technologies. Before that, senior
research scientist at what is now Google
DeepMind Robotics. And you've been on
sobatical for the last few months. One
of the things you've been doing is
rebuilding and improving and hacking on
AlphaGo. And so we're today what we're
going to do is you're going to explain
building AlphaGo from scratch and what
it tells us about the future of BI
research and development. But uh before
we get to that, why is AlphaGo
interesting? Why is this why is this the
project you decided to do on sobatical
rather than just hang out at the beach?
>> Sure. Yeah. Um I like making things and
Alph Go and Go AI is one of those things
that really got me into the field. Uh
when I saw the kind of early
breakthroughs um on AlphaGo in 2014,
2015, 2016 and so forth. It was just
profound to see, you know, how smart AI
systems could become and the the kind of
computational complexity class that they
could tackle with deep learning. Um this
is a problem that has you know long been
understood to be kind of intractable for
search and yet um it was solved um
through through deep learning and so so
that was quite mysterious to me and I've
always wanted to understand that
phenomena a little bit better. My
training is often in deep neural nets
for robotics where it's uh the the
decisions made by the neural networks
are a bit more intuitive. But Alph Go is
a sort of problem where the the
decisions are actually the result of a
very very deep search. And it's always
been very mysterious to me how like a 10
layer network can sort of amortize the
simulation of something so so uh so deep
in the in the game tree.
>> Yeah. Interesting. So if you plot out
how much compute it took to build
various iterations of strong gobots over
the years, you can see that in 2020
there was a open- source project called
Kadigo um by David Woo from Jane Street
who who basically achieved a 40x
reduction in compute needed to train a
really strong goat tablea. Um I'm not
certain if it's stronger than alpha go
zero or alpha zero or mu0ero u but it's
very very strong and this is what most
go practitioners today train against
when they're when they're playing an AI
and thanks to LM coding what took a
whole team of research scientists at de
mind and you know millions of dollars of
research and compute can now be done for
you know a few thousand dollars of of
rented compute.
>> Okay I guess we should first discuss how
go works.
>> Great.
>> So yeah how does the game work? Um, so
the game of code is a very simple one
that can be implemented uh quickly and
easily in a computer. The the objective
of the game is basically to put down
black and white stones and try to occupy
as much territory in the game as
possible. So I might start by putting
down a black stone. Uh, black always
goes first. Let's go ahead. And so the
way you capture an opponent's stones is
that for every um intersection if you
can surround all four of its neighbors
with um with your stones then um then
this one is sort of cut off from oxygen
if you will and then it uh and it is a
dead dead stone. So so then now I
control these four stones as well as
this empty intersection here.
>> So there's like slight variations
between Chinese, Japanese and uh what is
called Trump Taylor rules. Um, trump
Taylor rules are designed to be
completely unambiguous for go. So this
is what all go AIs train against and
resolve against. So in typical Go like
the humans play, you're actually not
allowed to put this whitest stone down
here. It would be instant suicide. Um,
in Trump Taylor, it's actually fine. You
put it down and then it immediately
resolves to death. So the outcome is
sort of the same.
>> Let's go ahead and start over and and
play play a few stones and then I'll
explain some more. So
>> I'll just start there.
All
right. I'm like basically playing
randomly here, but I'm trying to get
around your stones and see if I can
close them.
>> Yeah.
>> So, this move um basically exposes one
empty neighbor for your white stone. And
it's very akin to a check in chess where
if you don't respond immediately by
putting one here, then I can immediately
capture this.
>> I see. Okay. cuz it is it is sort of the
diagonals that determine whether you're
guarded in
>> the cross-section, not the diagonals.
>> So So this one is surrounded on three
sides.
>> Yeah.
>> And so um you're at threat of losing
that stone if you don't play one
immediately there.
>> Now you can see that I'm starting to
pressure you because by putting a stone
uh here now you are forced to um put one
here.
>> Otherwise you would have this two block.
>> Yes.
>> To yourself. And then if you think think
through like what happens if you were to
respond here, you can probably, you
know, search into the future and deduce
what I'll do in response. Uh once you
once you do that,
>> you have a lot of confidence in my
abilities. But I'm guessing you'd put
the black here.
>> That's right. And then I would capture
all three of these stones.
>> So I should just assume that this is
gone. This little block is gone.
>> Yes. So in go it's actually okay to let
opponent capture um some stones if for
example it allows you to position u to
capture more stones in somewhere else on
the board. And and this is what makes Go
a very beautiful game is that um you can
kind of uh lose the battle but win the
war, right? And and as the board size
increases, the complexity of these kind
of like micro versus macro dynamics uh
gets gets more interesting.
>> But presumably you'd put one here.
>> Mhm.
>> And so now I would capture this entire
group. Okay.
>> And this this would be my
>> Okay. There's one more um uh case that I
want to demonstrate which uh actually I
had a bug in my code uh recently which
is the following situation. So let's
consider a formation like this, right?
And then you know we have other pieces
on the board in play or whatever. Um
and so
um let's talk a little bit about how the
game ends, right? Um in this territory,
who controls these these areas? Is it
white or is it black?
>> White.
>> It's actually black because I have
actually surrounded this whole area.
Yeah.
>> And it's um very assuming I have like
other black stones here. It's actually
very hard for you to break this out of
the control of these stones.
>> So when the final score is tallied,
would would these ones also count as
being in um
>> Yeah, great question. So, so um this is
where different rule sets have different
ways of scoring. And so we should talk a
little bit about how like uh you resolve
scores between humans and how you
resolve scores between uh computer code
>> u because there's actually some
ambiguity in how humans evaluate this.
So most humans would look at this board
configuration and conclude that like
black has kind of totally surrounded
white and so white has no chance of
life. We could play out more here but
then at the end I would capture
everything.
>> Um however if you have a way of breaking
this formation and connecting white to
something outside of it then it can flip
right and so this is where it's you know
a little bit hard for a computer to
decide these kind of things. Right? So
how do humans do it? Right? Like it's
it's worth thinking a little bit about
how humans resolve this because this
will actually map later to how we think
about the deep neural network. Um humans
basically say uh I think the game is
done and then you you have to also say I
think the game is done and then we'll
say like I think these are these are
milestones and then you have to agree.
If you don't agree then we keep playing.
>> Yeah.
>> So um essentially once two humans their
uh so-called value function um agree on
a consensus then the then the Chinese
rules uh result that.
>> Yeah. Interesting.
>> So in Trump Taylor scoring um it's
perfectly unambiguous. So it can be
decided you know algorithmically by a
computer. So if if let's say you you
have this at the end end game the way
you score this is that you first count
how many stones you control and that's
unamiguous.
>> Then you count how many empty
intersections that are not touched by
your opponent's stones.
>> So these intersections would not count
for either player because both of all of
these intersections are connected to
both white stones and black stones.
Right? If um this were like this, then
white would get three points. Now, this
is uh a little odd because a human would
know that white is actually losing these
points. But um Trump Taylor's scoring
would consider white to have all of
these points as well as these points.
>> Got it. Okay.
>> Right.
>> So, so that is a very big difference in
um how computer go scores things and how
humans score things.
>> How does the game end? The game ends
when either a player chooses to resign
or both players pass consecutively.
>> Cool.
>> Yep. So, that's the rules.
>> Nice. All right. Now, help me correct
this with AI.
>> Great. Okay. [laughter]
>> Let's understand how um Alph Go actually
works and how somebody in the audience
might be able to implement it.
>> Great. Yeah. Let's start with um kind of
an intuition about the underlying um you
know search process used to make moves
and we'll layer on uh ideas from deep
learning to make it much more efficient
and tractable. So go is a game where
there's just two players. We're going to
draw a person here and we're going to
draw an AI here.
And um let's say this person is playing
black so they go first. So we're going
to draw
go here. And then now the AI um is going
to make a move based on what it sees
here. So there's a question of like how
you encode these inputs into the AI.
Maybe you could use ones and zeros, but
you want to represent um you know,
black, white, and empty. So So you would
need at least three different values
here, right? So maybe you could use
zero, ones, and twos or something. So,
so the AI might see something like, you
know, 0 0 0
uh one.
Great. So, so this is the input to the
AI uh on its turn. Yeah.
>> So, so the AI can choose. Let's just
pick three possible random moves that
can go. And I just drew these at random.
And so, which which move is best here,
right? Well, we don't know until the
game ends. Um, there's no Go does not
have any kind of local reward of which
move here is good. And this is what
makes Go a very difficult game is that
you don't actually know who won until
you really get to the end of the game.
So, how deep is this tree, right? Well,
in a 19 by19 um Go board, there are uh
you know roughly to the order of 361
moves on any given uh move. And of
course, as it fills up, you have less
moves. Um and and the the number of
steps in the game can be somewhere from
250 to 300 moves. And maybe experts
might uh decide to end the game um well
before that. But uh you know under Trump
Taylor scoring you actually have to play
things all the way to the end. So this
could be like 300 moves or something,
right? So like 300
um like depth of the tree.
>> Yeah. So if you keep on expanding
possible moves here. So in in this move
the AI is going and then you know here
the human would go
and then you know there's there's some
and so forth
you can find that like essentially what
you end up with is an enormous explosion
in the possible game outcomes
originating from just this one state. So
this is something to the order of like
you know 361 to 300 power of 300 which
is far more than the number of atoms in
the universe right like it's it's just
uh it's just and of course actually
there are redundancies and symmetries so
it's not actually 300 but but that's
sort of the if you were to do a naive
tree where there were no merging of
children then actually you end up with a
tree about this big.
>> What do you mean by merging of children?
>> Right. Let me uh use this board here. So
if we start here and then you play here
and then um I play here and then you
play here that is equivalent to I start
here you play here I play here
>> and then you play here right so so both
of them arrived at the same spot but
through different paths so this child
node can be thought about as a shared
ancestor
>> and I guess it's not 36 it starts at 361
but it decreases by one each time
>> and the branching factor decreases by
one each time yes but in any case this
is a very very very large tree. And uh
this is also why you know computer
scientists for many years thought that
go was not a tractable problem this
century because the amount of compute
you would need to exhaustively search
every possible possibility um is just
too large.
>> Um if you could go is actually
deterministic game. So um on any given
state you can actually compute what the
uh best possible strategy you can uh you
can make is in order to win the game.
can search all the possible futures
where you win and then just make sure
you always stay in in in that you know
set of futures.
>> Mhm.
>> Um so Alph Go's kind of core conceptual
breakthrough was using neural nets to
make this search problem tractable. So
before we get into you know how neural
networks are involved let's talk a
little bit about how we can you know
assuming we have a powerful enough
computer um search this uh this tree to
find the best move. Right? So in the
beginning um you're not going to build
out the whole tree uh because storing
that tree would be very expensive.
Instead you might do something like
interactively figure out which um which
leaves of this tree are worthy of
exploring and expanding into the future
to see you know what else is there. So
um there are some early algorithms in uh
bandit literature like you know UCB uh
one which is not exactly appropriate for
a you know sequential game like go but
very much inspired the action selection
um algorithm used in uh in Alph Go. So,
so UCB1 looks like on on every move
we're going to take the best action or
you know the arg max over a that
maximizes um um you know the
Q of A and I'll explain what Q of A is
in a moment plus some sort of
exploration bonus.
So on every node we're going to track a
few quantities. So, so let's you know
consider each of these a node. This is
this is the the root node um where
you're making decisions from these are
the children of the root node and um
we're going to say each node is
basically a data structure
that is um it stores a visit count
of this um this node this this child
node
>> is how often the parent visited this
node.
>> Yes. And we'll call this an action. So,
so one thing that is easy to trip on is
like if you come from uh you know
robotics or um other kinds of
reinforcement learning is like where are
the actions right I'm only talking about
nodes um nodes here represent states and
because this is a perfectly
deterministic game with no randomness
you can actually just infer the action
based on the child
>> so so if I go here that implies an
action and this is the state that we
resolve in right so so the LLMs if you
ask to uh you know vibe code a uh MCTS
implementation it'll will most likely
design the right data structure here.
But um you know it's up it's sort of a
chef's choice. You can actually rewrite
the the tree structure however you like.
This was what um Claude 4.6 wrote for me
when I when I asked it and it was a very
reasonable choice.
>> So um
>> so then you know Q represents the um
mean
action
value of this action.
And I'll use a subscript a to denote
that this kind of corresponds to taking
a specific action to to get here right
from from the from the root node. Um so
so like uh if if we have root basically
taking a gets us to this this note here.
>> Um and then we're going to also store
the probability of taking this action
[snorts]
>> again from the parent.
>> From the parent. Yes. Like like what are
the odds that we sample this one? Yeah.
>> And and this will become relevant later.
you know like uh we we've talked about a
deterministic tree for now. So I I'll
bring probabilities into this later. And
then finally we have a sort of uh
dictionary of children
which is just like you know more of
these notes in a in a sort of classic
link list style reference tree. So um
this is the basic data structure to
implement a tree and um in Alph Go um
they use a slightly different action
selection criteria called um pucked and
it's short for predicted upper
confidence with trees and uh this is
basically um when you when you select
which which child to take you do arg Max
A of
Q of S A
plus
uh constant.
So the equation forms are actually
pretty similar. Um these are both
scoring criteria, right? like you want
to argax this quantity and you want to
arg this quantity to determine which
action to take. So let's break down the
intuition of like how you select actions
here. This is the mean action value. So
how good is a given child on average? Um
and and and if you actually you know
knew the whole tree then uh this is all
you need, right, to select the best
action. You don't really need to do more
than that. But if you're interactively
building this tree as you're um figuring
out what the Q values should be, then
what you have have to do is occasionally
try some other actions, you know, as a
sort of explore versus exploit
trade-off. So um in both UCB and uh
puck, there is this term here that
basically rewards um taking actions that
you haven't taken before. So as we
mentioned before, each node stores the
visit count of taking that specific
action, right? So everything is
initialized to zero. And so for a given
action, let's just say like call it n
like action a um initially it's zero and
and so as n is increasing if if let's
say we've already made 10 um 10 uh
action selections from that root node u
but we haven't picked a yet then this
term actually starts to become quite
large for a.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And conversely if we have chosen
a 10 times out of 10 then now this term
is quite small. It it diminishes very
quickly. And the same thing is actually
true here.
Just make sure I'm understanding it.
Maybe I can uh
put it in my own words.
>> Let's just focus on UCB. What we're
saying here,
you can think of it conceptually as two
different things. The Q and then this
exploration term.
>> Mhm.
>> Let's just be clear about what Q is. Q
is basically saying, hey, once we do
these rollouts. So, you're actually
running all these simulations. You go
down the tree and then you figure out,
okay, if I end up at the terminal value
of this tree, do I win this game or not?
And then you do this, you average
whether I win this game or not across
all the, you know, the leaves of this
tree from starting from this node. That
average you put in Q.
>> Correct.
>> And so you're saying the Q is basically
representing will I win this game or
not? Uh what is the probability that
I'll win this game starting at this
node? That's your sort of um that is
your sort of exploit. That is like
saying I've run these simulations. I
think this is a good move or not. And
then this other term is saying um have I
explored this branch enough yet relative
to the other actions I could be
exploring or I have already explored uh
if I haven't explored this branch yet
you know maybe I think it has a low
score but I just haven't explored that
many branch uh leaves of this uh down
this uh leaves down this uh down this
node in this tree. So I should maybe
like try this even though the Q the sort
of exploit is telling me that this is
not that valuable and because ln of n
grows slower than n. Uh basically as
over time you will move from the arg max
being dominated by this exploration term
which is the second term here to the
argmax being dominated by the q term
which is like okay I've done enough
simulations I'm quite confident that
like this is the branch to go down.
>> Yes that's right. So um the motivation
for UCB was to come up with an algorithm
where if you don't know the payoff of
the arms uh the the different actions
you can select to begin with this uh
strategy basically with given some
exploration term here bounds your regret
>> uh in terms of how wrong you can
possibly be.
>> Um I don't know the proof. I don't also
know if this one is proved to have a
logarithmically or or like uh you know
square root bounded regret or anything
but I think the algorithm was just
derived to look something like this. And
you can tell that these terms are they
grow a little bit differently. And this
is actually just to account for the fact
that go has many more actions in every
given move compared to your standard
bandit problem.
>> Um so uh one small clarification to make
is that you talked a little bit about
simulations on improbability and so
forth. Um we should remember that go
fundamentally is a deterministic game.
So the notion of pro like where does the
notion of probability come from here,
right? Um
>> uh if you had a very powerful computer,
there is no probabilities. you just you
can just compute the true average of
what the the mean action value is. So
where does the probability come in?
Well, it turns out that um uh as in you
know computer go before uh alpho we've
always done some sort of Monte Carlo
method where we have some we we take the
um expected Q value averaged over a
randomly selected tree um and that
randomly selected tree is where
probabilities come in. So the
interpretation of Q is um what is the
expected action value under the um under
the random distribution induced by some
random search process.
>> Makes sense.
>> And so where does the random search
process come in? That's where uh you
know p of action comes in here. So if we
assume a very naive algorithm where you
have a uniform probability of taking any
valid action then this would just be one
over you know the number of valid moves
in uh in in this uh setup and you would
be kind of taking this average over this
very diffuse tree right and and this is
uh this is a valid um integral you can
take but it's very slow because you're
going to consider a lot of trees that
have very low value and uh it's
essentially almost like a important
sampling problem where you want to
there's only a few actions and and sort
of uh paths that can contribute you know
high value and almost everything else is
low value. So so this is sort of a
tricky um problem here. Okay. Um so this
is the action selection criteria for how
you decide which moves to move down. Now
as you move down um in in tree search,
you will eventually run into a node
where um it's quite clear you've won or
lost right at the at the very very end
of the game when when there are no valid
moves to play left under under Trump
Taylor scoring. you can decide whether
you like you know won or lost, right? So
you either win or you lost.
And so this is basically um you know the
the final return of the whole game,
right?
>> Um and so the the question here is like
we we can assign a um a value u to a a
terminal leaf node of the tree, but how
do we assign the values for nodes prior
to that? the parents. And it turns out
um you know what you simply do is you
just take the um your mean action value
is essentially your average. So let's
suppose these were leaf nodes. Um sorry
these were all leaf nodes. The the mean
action value of this node. You know this
action here is just the average of
whether you won or lost at the leaf
nodes. And uh correspondingly you can
kind of walk up the chain and say like
well the mean action value of this node
let's call this like QB and this is
action B is just the average of a
weighted average of these swamps here.
Yeah.
>> Right. And and the weighted average is
um it could be dependent on if you have
a different sampling distribution or
not. But the that the basic intuition is
that you want to resolve the game where
you have a deterministic win or lose and
then you can kind of go backwards. uh
this is called the backup step and
assign values to these uh these these
these nodes or actions um uh
corresponding to the averaged over over
the final terminal leaf. Yeah. Okay. So
um if you were to do this without neural
networks, it would still be intractable.
Um you would you would have a trouble
finding, you know, which um actions to
sample. A lot of the actions would
contribute very low value, especially if
you're like, you know, trying to fight
your way out of a losing position and
only a few actions give you high value.
So the search in practice is still very
very expensive. Um but but the the idea
is that like if you can because go
follows a tree structure you can
actually you know inform a very good
estimate of the value of this node based
on the uh values of uh you know
downstream assuming they're all correct
and assuming you've searched deep
enough. Mhm.
>> Your explanation earlier about the um
the sorts of states where it's obvious
to a human who's going to win, but it's
not obvious to
>> or like you deterministically you still
had to play it out
>> actually drove home the intuition of why
the value function both is trainable and
two why it's necessary in order to
actually h be able to learn this game
effectively. And maybe it's worth
defining value in the first place but
>> sounds good. Yeah.
>> Yeah. So we we talked about uh you know
this U value being you know your final
resolution of whether you won or lost
and this is the terminal leaf node
condition. Um now humans don't play all
the way to the sort of edges of the the
tree the leaves of the tree right they
kind of stop you know some dozens of
moves before maybe maybe even hundred
moves before in in sort of high level
play. So how do they know right? Like
you can think about humans as implicitly
having a neural network called a value
function that basically um you know
takes in uh a board state and then it
kind of evaluates um you know
he went win
and so the human glances at the board
and they know like I'm probably going to
lose, right? and and they're essentially
running a neural network that looks at a
board and implicitly they are
amvertising a huge number of possible
game playouts and and taking that
average and then deciding whether the
board is winnable or not and then
whether they should concede or or you
know keep playing or not. And uh this is
remarkable if you think about like the
um the beauty of something like this.
It's like a a neural network in a in a
human can somehow do all of this
simulation at a glance and then just
know like within a few seconds without
actually playing every single game
logically based on just kind of like
crystallized knowledge and experience
that like they can do this. And so this
gives us a hint that like in games like
Go um there are ways to basically
radically speed up the search process.
And this is one of the fundamental
intuitions behind why AlphaGo works is
that you can train a value function to
look at a board and quickly resolve the
game without playing out all of these
trees into the you know into a very deep
search depth.
>> Yep. Makes sense. I will say for the
audience um I sort of found uh
for previous episodes when I was
prepping and it would seem somewhat
relevant to understand how alpha go
works I would find it very very
confusing and but it's the kind of thing
where once you understand the problem in
this way and then you'll build the next
few pieces it is actually much more
understandable and it will make a lot of
sense and it's okay to be confused right
now uh but it's it's probably simpler to
understand by the end of this lecture
than you anticipate so I'll just make
that note for the audience Uh yeah, the
important intuition at a high level just
to you know step back about where we're
going with all this is that um
>> classically for games like Go you could
build a tree but we don't have computers
powerful enough for that.
>> Yeah.
>> And um estimating the value of every
action that you could possibly take is
also hard because you don't know until
the end of the game.
>> You could take averages uh by playing
them to the end, but that's also hard
because you don't know which actions to
take to sample these averages. So
conceptually there's kind of two
problems there. There's the breadth of
the tree and then there's the depth of
the tree. And AlphaGo gives us a way to
basically u shrink both of those to be
very tractable.
>> Yeah,
>> that's that's essentially the kind of
core idea behind it.
>> Okay. So we uh we take this idea that
like you know humans can glance at a
board and instantly predict whether we
win and maybe that gives us the
opportunity to really truncate the how
deep we we search. And then you know we
also know that humans can look at a
board and um
and uh decide you know
um what what boards you know
like intuitively at a glance what moves
might be good on a go board right so so
these are kind of two things that we can
use deep neural networks for to
accelerate this search process um let's
go back before we talked about neural
nets let's just go back to how this
playout works and we've only talked
about making one move right so so the AI
looks at this encoded goboard. It has a
tree. Um, it searches for, you know,
deeply into the tree to find out which
of its actions might be the best and
then it takes that action. And then now,
you know, it goes back to the human. So
maybe now the human sees a go board that
looks like, you know, like this. And um
and then they um they make their move.
So maybe they put um they put their
stone here.
And then now we
um we go back to the AI
which now looks at a new encoded board.
So I've used two to denote the AI's
playing as white and one to denote the
human playing as black and zero as
empty. And then now on the AI's turn, it
does the MCTS tree search all over again
from scratch. Right? So, so it throws
away this old tree that it searched last
round and now there's a new root node
and it begins to search a new
and then so forth. So, MCTS is basically
a you can think about it like a search
algorithm that is um deciding what moves
to play best aided by neural networks um
and and it's it's done on every every
move.
>> Okay, great. So, let's talk about the
neural network part of this. And while
you're racing, another sort of thing
that was important for me to understand
was this MCTS data structure with nodes
and childrens of nodes and whatever. Um,
this is done per move and reinstantiated
once a move is made. So a human makes a
move then the AI looks at this and is
trying to basically run a bunch of
simulations uh to figure out okay what
should move should I make next and those
simulations just a simulation is
basically like exploring one more node
in this MCTS3 and at the end um once all
these once all this you know you run a
thousand simulations that informs then
this um I guess as you'll explain this
probability of what move to make next
that's what you store you You sort of
choose the best move given those
probabilities. You discard all of that.
Then the next player makes a move and
you restart this process at the
beginning of every move.
>> Correct. One small addendum. You don't
discard all of that. You keep one thing
behind that we'll use later.
>> Yeah.
>> Just like I did for Reiner, I wanted to
make flash cards for this episode so
that people could retain these concepts.
And ideally, an LLM could generate some
candidates for me to then refine. But to
actually get high quality suggestions, I
needed to design a whole pipeline where
the AI could take and ingest screenshots
of [music] the blackboard at the right
time stamps and then make SVG diagrams
in case visuals were helpful and then
run their writing and drawing through a
critic and then revise the card in
response to this feedback. It's very
hard to accomplish this just by stacking
LLM calls. This sort of step-by-step
recipe works much better if you have a
durable agent that's been engaging with
the task across all the previous stages.
So, I use the cursor SDK to spin up an
agent for each card. The cursor hardness
saved me a bunch of work in designing
some custom context scaffold or figuring
out how to design tool calls for taking
screenshots or making animations. These
agents all run in the cloud, so I don't
have to worry about leaving my laptop
open. I just get an email when I have
candidates to review. You can check out
my cards at flashcards.warcash.com.
You can start building with the agents
SDK at cursor.com/sworth.
Okay, so now we have a basic intuition
of how moves are made with search. We're
going to talk about how neural networks
can speed this up uh by providing an
analog to like the human intuition.
>> So there's two networks. There is the
value network
which takes in a state and it predicts
you know am I going to win or lose? It's
a binary classification problem.
Then we're going to have a policy
network which uh induces a distribution
over good actions to take.
>> So um I'm going to draw a
one-dimensional flattened move
distribution, but this is really like
you know a a square kind of grid, right?
So um so maybe like it thinks actions
are like these are the kind of
probability distribution over good
actions. And both of these are uh
categorical classification problems,
right? So you can train this like any
classifier in uh with deep learning um
uh you know cross entropy loss that kind
of stuff.
>> So the um the specific architecture does
not actually matter too much. I I tried
a few different architectures.
Transformers work, ResNets work for
small data regimes. Uh my experience is
that ResNets still kind of outperform
transformers and um and it kind of gave
you more bang for the buck at at lower
budgets. But this may not be true.
>> Why is that? um they they provide the
inductive bias of like local
convolutions and generally transformers
start to outperform uh residual
convolutional networks when you want
more global context.
>> I see.
>> So, so one um interesting finding from
the Kadiggo paper was that they found it
actually quite useful to pull together
global features together um and
aggregate global features like uh
throughout the network um to kind of
give the network a global sense of how
to like connect value from one side of
the board to another side of the board.
But what does it mean to aggregate
global features?
>> Yeah. So if you have a um go a very
large 19 by9 goboard
>> and you you know you've got some some
sort of battles going on here and you
got some battles going on here.
>> Um when you pass this through a
convolutional neural network,
>> the receptive fields of the
convolutional network are going to be
good at computing local things and
making that invariant.
But um they won't be able to kind of
connect these two features easily,
right? They need to sort of be pulled
together and attend to each other
somehow. So the argument about you know
why transformers are good for computer
vision tasks like with uh you know
vision transformers and so forth is that
because they have a sort of global
attention across the whole thing, they
can more easily draw these connect
predictions. But you do need more data
there so that you can kind of uh learn
through data the the sort of invariant
local local features.
>> Um I've tried very hard to make
transformers work for this problem
because I was kind of curious if
transformers would present some sort of
breakthrough in go and just remove a lot
of those tricks. But try as I might I
actually haven't figured out a way to
make transformers better than resonance
for for now.
>> So one uh sorry one more tangential
question.
It it makes sense why transports with
their like global pooling of information
would be better if you need to consider
information that is not just spatially
um
uh yeah CNN's give you a sort of bias
that the things that are next to you are
especially irrelevant
>> and then they're sort of aggregated up.
Yes.
>> But suppose okay so for games where it
it isn't that relevant what is happening
locally you just kind of have to
consider the whole thing
>> you're saying transformers would work
better. How about games where so talking
about the spatial dimension? How about
the temporal dimension where right now
we're only considering the previous move
because it is a deterministic full
information game where um uh but what if
it was something like poker or diplomacy
where
really a bluff they made a while back is
sort of relevant to understanding now
and isolating to decide to make your
next movements you need to consider all
those previous states. Would that then
change into the consideration of what
inductive bias is most relevant and what
architecture is most relevant?
>> Right. Great question. So, Go is a
perfect information game. Yeah. And in
perfect information games, um there does
exist a Nash equilibrium strategy for
which you can do no worse than any other
strategy. M so um if you know that your
opponent has a particular bias like they
they love to play aggressively, you can
actually in principle counter that
specific strategy better than a Nash
equilibrium policy. But um to counter
any given strategy um there does exist a
single um Nash equilibrium that can be
decided solely using the current state.
So um that that is a design choice that
most Go agents AlphaG go chose to do
which in hindsight turned out to work
very well because the uh Nash
equilibrium seems to be superhuman like
like no human strategy seems to be able
to beat it.
>> Now there are variations of this where
you would actually need to consider
temporal history. So, and and this is a
very exciting research area that I I
would encourage people to kind of fork
my repo and try these things out, which
is um if you were to play, let's say,
2v2 go, then you actually need to model
your partner's uh behavior and you like
you may not have information on how they
play. So, you need to aggregate some
information on like how they play so
that you can respond accordingly. Yeah.
Right. Like these are uh situations
where it's no longer a perfect
information game. And then in those
cases in in games of imperfect
information or partial observability
then you do need some context to build a
model.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. And and and I think that's a place
where things get very very exciting in
terms of like selfplay or you know
diplomacy style.
>> Yeah. Interesting.
>> Okay. So uh returning back to the neural
network the architecture again is not
super important. You can get it to work
with transformers. You can get it to
work with resets. I found that for
lowbudget experiments uh resets work a
little better. Um, you can also use kind
of a Carpathy style auto research
hyperparameter tuning to make make your
architecture pretty good. And so, so you
don't have to worry too much about that.
You just need to sort of set up the
problem so that you have a sort of
target optimization.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. So, we're going to pick just a
somewhat arbitrary architecture that
worked for for you know what I did. But
again, this part is not super important.
um you have your encoded board state and
uh we're going to just choose to let's
say do three uh three like you know
similar to an RGB we're going to have
three kind of channels uh one channel to
encode black, one channel to encode
white and then um and then uh one
channel maybe to encode like um uh
empties or um maybe like a masked region
if you want to train on multiple board
sizes. I'm actually not going to talk
about multiple board sizes for now.
That's a little bit too complicated. So
we'll just say like you know we've got
this two or three channel uh RGB like
image and then we go into a you know a
ResNet
and then we have two branching heads. Um
one head predicts the the value function
and this is like a single loget. So this
is like R1 and then we have the policy
which is you know R 361.
So
um this is the architecture and uh we're
going to basically train this to predict
the outcomes of games given the board
state and we're also going to train this
to predict what are good moves. Yeah.
>> Right. So the OG AlphaGo paper uh or
called AlphaGo Lee um initialized this
network with a supervised learning data
set of expert human play. Um later they
remove this restriction by having the
model teach itself how to play well. But
I find it actually from a matter of like
implementation for your audience. Super
super nice to always kind of initialize
your your experiments to something
that's easy and then like you know get
the problem working before you know
trying to bite off the whole thing and
learn a tablet resin. you you generally
want to kind of initialize just as in
deep learning init in initialization is
everything right. Um you always want to
initialize your research project to
something as close to success as
possible. Um especially if you're you
know doing something new that you
haven't done before. Like always pick
something that works and then get it to
do something better rather than start
from something that doesn't work at all
and then you know um try to make it
work. So um under that philosophy it's a
great idea to start from something that
like you know has a good initialization.
So we're going to take human expert
plays um and train this model to predict
um you know good actions right so we're
going to take all of the winning games
all all the moves in which a a human won
and um sorry an expert won and then
predict those actions and then uh
regardless of board state like you know
whether you won or lost you're going to
predict the outcome. Yeah. So, you might
be wondering like, okay, well, some of
the early boards, you know, where
basically only one stone has been put
down, how could you possibly know
whether who who the winner of this game
is, right? Well, if you have uh, you
know, hundreds of thousands of games,
then in on average, you'll probably see
that boards that start like this have a
sort of half of the games that branch
off from this will win and half of the
games that branch off of this will lose.
So, that'll actually be fine. When you
train this model to predict those, the
loget will sort of converge to uh, you
know, 0.5. Um and and so so for these
for these things it's sort of expected
that once you train the model a starting
board state will look like 0.5 and then
as you progress towards the end of the
game it'll actually look something like
you know if this is 0.5 the the win
probability will sort of either go like
this or it'll it'll go like this right
and um and this is sort of your move
number.
>> Yeah. And so as you, you know, get
hundreds of steps into the game, it
becomes much more clear like who's more
likely to win or who's more likely to
lose under your expert data
distribution.
>> I I didn't understand the significance
of why the this way of thinking about
value is especially relevant to the
expert data.
>> It is not relevant to the expert data.
It's true for any data that you train
on. Yeah. So if you were to learn a
tablet Raza, you would also expect this
to fall out. Yeah. So um if you just do
this like so imagine you know you're
vibe coding Alph Go and you um you you
gather some expert data sets from like
how to go online um or you you know you
have a data set of human players and you
train this model actually it turns out
this model is already a pretty good go
player. it'll most likely beat most
human players, right? So, so like if you
just take this policy recommendation and
take the ARG max over, you know, it's uh
if this is the, you know, probabilities,
if you take the ARG max and you just
take this action as your go play, um
it'll be a very very fast go player that
doesn't think in terms of like reasoning
steps. it just kind of shoots from the
hip and it'll be a very strong go player
which is already quite miraculous if you
think about like you know 10 neural
network layers maybe under like 3
million parameters can already do
something that impressive
>> um
>> um and so you can start this way and
it's important when implementing this to
kind of just verify that this is
probably true. It's good to verify that
your Go rules are implemented correctly,
that like you know you can run these
simulations relatively quickly. Uh and
and just as almost like a a sort of a um
a checkpoint that like you want to make
sure that you can actually do this basic
step before you try to layer on more
complex uh things like search.
>> Yeah.
>> Um so but yeah, we can do a lot better
than taking the raw neural network and
playing the moves. And uh this is how we
can apply it to Monte Carlo research. So
let's uh apply the neural network to um
to improve Monte Carlo research. So we
start with our root node
and we now have a four-step uh iterative
process to do MCTS. So this tripped me
up when I was first reading the paper
and trying to understand it. But um uh
essentially what we're going to do is
we're going to choose a number of
simulations. So like you know numbum
simulations
and this number varies. This can be you
know somewhere between 200 to uh 2048. I
believe in um in the AlphaGo Lee match
they use tens of thousands of
simulations per move because they really
wanted to boost the strength of the
model as much as possible.
>> Yeah.
>> Um but in training you don't actually
need too many. And Katigo I think uses
something on this order as well.
>> Do you know if they used uh if you watch
the documentary they had a laptop out
during the game. They didn't use a
laptop itself. It was like on some
>> It was on some TPU pod, I think. Yeah.
Um but now
>> honestly kind of unfair.
>> Well, uh
>> like Lee is not using like one E22 flops
to do a move, you know.
>> Fair enough. Um interestingly enough,
modern Go bots don't need that much
compute at test time. And what we'll
actually find out uh as we talk about
how the um MCTS policy improvement works
is that over time the raw network
actually takes all of the burden of that
big TPU pod and just push pushes it into
the network and and you can do all of
that work with one you know neural
network pass.
>> Um but but the TPU pod will always add
the extra oomph on top. And so that's
what they wanted for the match.
>> So so we're gonna pick this kind of like
numbum simulations thing. And uh for
every simulation, we're going to
basically do several things
simultaneously. We're going to see which
which moves are the best in the current
tree. We're going to add extra leaves to
the tree if we get to a point where we
need to add a leaf. And we're going to
update the action values for for the
tree. So that's that's what every every
simulation involves these kind of like
four-step process. So, so the four-step
process is basically selection
um expansion,
evaluation
and backup.
So, so at the beginning of our um Monte
Carlo tree search, our tree is very uh
basic. It only has the the root node or
our current board that our um AI wants
to play at. And so we're going to
basically select the best action for
this. So when this root node is created,
we're also we also know that we can
evaluate this under our neural network
and get the quantities um you know v
theta as well as our um probability over
uh actions
and I'm going to say root.
So for all of the actions here we can
create a bunch of children, right?
So, so this one has um well in this case
I'm drawing a 3x3 board with one one
board missing. So basically there are um
you know eight possible children uh
associated with this root node.
So like
and each of these has an associated
probability of taking that action.
Right? So so there's P8,
P1, P2, etc. Okay. So at the beginning
of our Monte Carlo tree search, we have
our root node and we can initialize it
with some children, right? because we
know it's uh the the policy network
evaluated on the root node gives us on a
3x3 board with one existing uh stone
placed eight possible children that this
uh AI could take. Um so with each of the
children their policy network also gives
us the probability of selecting that
child. So the um first step is to do the
selection of the tree and again this is
a very shallow tree. All we have so far
is a tree of depth one essentially
right. So our our first move is to
select by maximizing or arg maxing the
pucked criteria which is basically you
know q um qs a plus um you know c pucked
* p of a divided by n over 1 + n a.
So for each of these we're going to uh
you know na is zero for for all the
actions initially n is zero and um and
so we're going to basically just you
know pick according to this um
initially
uh what is going to be the you know
chosen action here is most likely going
to be biased towards um you know the
highest likelihood action here right
because these are sort of uniform for
every So
um let's suppose P1 was the highest
probability node. So you you you
selected this one here. Now you got to
this node and you realize that it's not
a leaf node, right? There are more g
it's not a terminal game. So you cannot
resolve the the final resolution. So the
next step that you do is um expansion.
>> So you um you will then run this node
this board state through the policy
network. Note that this is the AI's
move, right? like a AI is making this
move. And so when we expand this tree,
we're now thinking about what the human
might do or any opponent might do,
right? So so this is like you know your
your your opponent.
>> Um
the tree expansion process actually is
completely uh so so so when we evaluate
the um the node here, we're going to now
evaluate the the node from the
perspective of this player.
>> Yeah. Right.
Um so then this one has possible actions
that we could take and uh we we expand
basically the the the leaf nodes here.
So for each of these nodes um that we
could you know arrive at we're going to
now check how good those nodes are
right. So, so maybe um
from here like the human could play
here, the human could play here or human
could play here. And we're going to um
store essentially the v theta for each
of these things. So v theta of you know
node one
or like node one um prime v theta node
one
um and so we're basically using our
neural network to make an intuitive
guess of how good is this um board from
the perspective of this player. And uh
fortunately because the u it's a zero
sum game it's easy to deduce that you
know the value for this player at this
this step is just one minus the value
for you know from this perspective. So
it's easy to flip the search process uh
depending on which player you're at. Um
and so so this is the expansion step.
You've taken a non-leaf node and
expanded it and evaluated the value. And
this is essentially a quick guess as to
like if I were to play to the end am I
going to win or not? Right? So you can
almost think about the v theta as a
shortcut for uh searching to the end of
the tree for for any given simulation.
Um and then we're go and this is this is
essentially the evaluation step. We're
we're evaluating the quality of each of
these boards. In original alpha they
actually did something uh kind of
interesting which is that they took this
value and they averaged it with the
value of a real go playout. So they
actually played a real game from here
all the way to the end. So So like I'm
just going to draw this squiggly line to
indicate some path. And uh they kind of
like play this all the way to res Trump
tailor resolution
of a full board. And so this is like a
zero or one, right?
And so they took this value and they
just averaged it with with this one
here. So the the the formula they did
was like uh you know alpha * v theta of
of like you know some some node um plus
uh sort of like 1 minus alpha of a of a
true randomly sampled playout.
And you might be wondering like okay
well how do they play this out right
like it would be very very costly to do
another search on on this playout like
almost like a tree within a tree. So
they don't do this. Instead they just uh
take the policy network and play it
against itself. So they just take this
as both players and they just play it
all the way to the end. And and um this
is something that helps ground the um
the estimates here in in reality because
you can get a single sample estimate of
like whether you win or not. You can
think about in the end game where the
board is almost resolved that this one
actually becomes quite useful because
the random the the play according to the
policy will most likely decide a pretty
reasonable guess of the game and so
you're not you know facing a problem
where this one kind of becomes
untethered from from reality. It turns
out this is totally unnecessary. So in
all subsequent papers after Alph Go Lee
they just got rid of this. Yeah. And so
in my implementation I also did the same
and it speeds things up a lot because
you don't have to roll these games out
on every single
>> simulation. Yeah. Okay. So uh again just
to uh reinforce my own understanding and
just to reexlain it for the items by the
way in case it's not obvious the P there
in the select that is the probability
coming from the network in this case
>> correct the policy network here
>> yeah okay so fundamentally
a simulation just think of it as like
rolling out one more node in the search
process
>> um almost so a simulation is easy to
Think about when the whole tree already
exists, right? You just walk down the
tree um using the puck selection
criteria and you you uh and then and
then you keep going.
>> Yeah.
>> Now, uh in Alph Go the data structure is
such that we begin with a tree that has
no like basically only depth one which
is its only children and you want to
iteratively build out the tree as you're
also selecting actions down the tree. So
that's the kind of core thing here is
that because Go is such a combinatorily
complex game, you cannot afford to build
the tree in advance and then search it.
You must search while building the tree,
>> right? Okay.
>> So um let me just finish up with
actually the last step which is the
backup. Right. So once you've scored
these things, you basically take the
mean the the value the Q value assigned
to the node here for taking this action
is now just the average across your
evaluated values. It's you take a
running mean over over uh all of the um
the the simulations that you've taken
and they average the values of the
children nodes.
>> So so that's what is known as the backup
step and once you evaluate this you can
actually kind of recursively go back. So
if you know the you know the action
value of this node you can then take the
average on its parent and so on and so
forth. So so you have this kind of
four-step process where you are choosing
the best action that you know of so far.
Then you may run into a node where you
uh you you haven't been to before. So
you need to grow the tree a bit. And
then you run it through the network to
guess whether you're going to win or
not. And then you walk all the way back
up to the to the root node to update
your values on what the best moves are.
So as you do this iteratively, this
selection criteria will cause you to
visit the because you're always
selecting according to this criteria,
you're always going to be selecting the
best action you think at any given
branch. Right? So, so the final um visit
counts of like how often you chose these
things will reflect your correct policy
distribution as induced through this
search process. Um and so so the visit
count that we store in the node earlier
actually becomes the sort of vote for
like which way we should finally select
an action here.
>> Yep.
>> So um you know as a sort of test of
understanding it's worth thinking a
little bit about whether we could make
this even simpler, right? like could we
actually maybe even get rid of this one
and still make the thing work? Um so
recall that you know when you do an
expansion and then an evaluation at
let's say this node you you are checking
the sort of win probability of each of
the child nodes right and so if this one
is you know like one and these are zero
um you do kind of know something about
which action might be better to take and
so why would you need still need this
right like why not just uh normalize
this one into some distribution and call
that your your policy distribution Um
this is fine. You can do this and um
this probably does work. But in practice
having a single forward pass that gives
you a pretty good guess is um is how the
uh the breath is is uh is pruned out. Um
the there is a sort of duality here.
Like it would be weird if let's say the
policy recommended an action that
disagreed with the value, right? If if
let's say policy said this was very high
probability but this one said it was you
know low value then there's actually
something kind of fundamentally wrong
between uh between your policy head and
your value head. So, so they are linked
and uh you probably could get rid of
this if you came up with a different way
to recover this from just the value
evaluations,
>> right? But, but just to make sure I
understand the reason you don't do that
is so that you don't have to do 360
independent
uh forward passes to like hey here's the
value of everything. Let's arg max over
instead you can just do one forward pass
and get like the probabilities of all of
them.
>> Um you can usually batch these somewhat
efficiently. Uh so it probably is not a
huge computational burden in practice
but yes you would have to pass 361 board
like up to 361 boards into a single mini
batch update to evaluate all the values
here then normalize them.
>> Um now there's actually a more uh
important reason why we still do this
which is how Monte Carlo tree search is
used to feed back on itself
>> um and and sort of recursively improve
its own predictions and search
capabilities. And that's where this this
one having this as an explicit entity
you're modeling rather than an implicit
normal normalization over your value is
is a is a good idea.
>> Makes sense. Okay.
>> Okay. So um so we talked about the
simulations and basically you know what
you end up with as you roll out the
number of simulations is a tree that
kind of looks like
I'm I'm I'm drawing a very
lowdimensional version of this. Of
course, it's in in in the real game,
it's it's much more high dimensional,
but like you'll end up with basically a
tree structure that like has um
a lot of leaves that kind of terminate
and are not visited again because their
value is deemed to be too low. But then,
you know, along one path there will be a
set of actions with very very high visit
counts that kind of gravitate towards
that one set of decisions as you
increase uh n here. So, so this is kind
of like the mental picture of what the
tree in Monte Carlo research looks like.
And you should contrast this with like
an exhaustive tree like in tic-tac-toe
where you could say like, you know,
there's there's nine actions and then
eight and then seven and six and so it's
a sort of like nine factorial sized um
tree. Um the Monte Carlo tree search in
Go is very very sparse, right? It only
considers the paths that you've expanded
ch children nodes on. Okay. So, um now
that we have the search algorithm that
applies the value function as well as
the policy function, um we can now talk
about how the Monte Carlo tree search
algorithm can actually act as a
improvement operator on top of these
guys here.
>> 20 years ago, Jane Street's data center
fit in the corner of an office. Ron
Minsky, who co-leads the tech group
there, told me about how it all got
started. One of our comput clusters we
called the Hive. And I remember the
first mission of the hive was literally
like six Dell boxes stacked on top of
each other at the end of the row. And
the trading systems themselves we also
had there because we actually wanted the
ability to make sure we could turn the
damn thing off. I mean there were ups
and downs like literally at some point
you know one of the people who was
cleaning the office unplugged one of the
trading systems in the middle of the day
as they were vacuuming. So you know in
the end it is in fact better to have it
all in a data center. Jane Street's data
centers have come a long way since those
six cells and I got to tour one of them
in Texas with Ron and Dan Pontto Cororvo
who leads Jane Street's physical
engineering team.
>> You know these cabinets, these GB300
cabinets consume at peak about 140 kW.
Compare that to tra traditional air
cooled you're talking about 10 to 40 KW.
So a lot more.
>> We got deep into the details of running
one of these data centers. Things that I
had never considered before.
>> It's filled with a liquid uh a mix of
distilled or deionized water and uh
propyline glycol. 25% of propyline
glycol. Um, that's to inhibit any
bacteria or algae growth.
>> I don't love the world where we have to
worry about bacteria growing in our
servers.
>> I got to see way more of what actually
happens in a data center than I've ever
seen before. Jane Street was willing to
literally pull up the floorboards and
take out the racks and take me to the
back where all the chillers are. You can
check all of this out at
janestreet.com/wcash
where we posted the full tour. Okay. So,
um we now talk about the RL part of like
how this thing gets stronger by playing
itself, right? Um let's say we play a
game where
the AI so you make a move
AI AI um will will kind of compute the
search and then this is this sort of
visit count distribution. Um let's say
this is your policy your policy initial
policy recommendation at the at the at
this node
>> and then after MCTS
it uh gets more confident about one of
these actions right and and so maybe the
the distribution looks a bit more peaky
like this based on the the search. Now
of course you can tune the search
process so that it ends up more diffuse
but that's probably not a good idea.
MCTS should get more confident about
specific actions um than others, but it
of course might place a lot of weight on
you know other actions initially and
then as you increase the number of sims
it should converge to a very peaky
distribution. Um so so this is your new
uh let's call this like pi
let's wrap this in like a MCTS operator
of you know a given s right so after
applying mcts process your your policy
recommended distribution looks like this
it's it's a bit more peaky than than the
previous one um and so then you take the
arcmax or maybe you just sample from
this uh it doesn't have to be the arm
max and then you you make your
And then um and then you throw away the
tree and then you you begin a new on the
next move, right? So
again like you um you know you compute a
new distribution.
So initially maybe your guess looks like
this and then you refine it through
MCTS.
>> There should be one more X on the board,
right?
>> I'm sorry. That's correct. Yes.
Um to something that looks like
right. So so on every move you have your
initial guess from your policy network.
Um and then the search process that
combines your policy network and your
value network arrives at a more
confident action that you take
>> and and then so and so forth and then
the game ends and one person wins and
one person loses. So a um the way that
uh the beauty of of how AlphaGo trains
itself is that it actually can take this
final search process the outcome of the
search process and tell the policy
network hey like you know instead of
having MCTS do all this you know leg
work to arrive here why don't you just
predict that from the get-go right like
why don't you like you know not use this
guess and just predict this to begin
with and if you have this guess to begin
with in your policy network then MCTS
has to do a lot less work to to get
things to work. And so if we draw like a
sort of test time scaling plot um so so
let's say like this is like number of
simulations.
um let's say you know at at zero
simulations your your sort of implicit
win rate is like um is like I don't know
here and then and then um without any
simul if you just take this raw action
this is your what your win rate is and
let's say as we increase the number of
sims um maybe maybe you kind of have a
win rate that looks like this right so
um when you search for let's say a
thousand simulation steps that gets you
to a um a policy here that gets you to
here, which is great. But if you were to
distill this MCTS policy network back
into your sort of uh shoot from the hip
policy network, then you could actually
um uh you know, start here. Like if
let's say this was, you know, zero um
for uh by by distillation, then if you
spend another 1,000 sim steps, then you
actually kind of get to here. It's
almost like if you could just, you know,
am um amvertise the the first 10,00
steps actually into the policy network
instead of the search process, then you
could begin at a much better starting
point and then get a much better result
for for your uh for the number of sims
that you put.
>> The sigmoid type nature of test time
scaling as the number of simulations
increases the the increase in win rate
is uh smaller. Is that true even for the
distilled network? That is to say, is
there some gain of like, okay, we start
from the distilled, we get these early
gains again, or is that just inherent to
like the nature of
>> yeah,
>> MCTS?
>> To be honest, I actually don't know the
test time scaling behavior of MCTS
simulations. And I I believe it might
actually be quite sensitive to how
strong this one is in practice. I'm just
drawing a monotonically increasing
function that gets to one. So yeah, so
so don't pay too much attention to the
shape of the curve. Just know that it's
monotonic with respect to um Okay. So um
so so the idea of MCTS is very brilliant
which is like we're gonna we got
something better by applying search.
>> Yeah.
>> And um we're going to now on our next
iteration of updating this network just
train this to approximate the outcome of
a thousand steps of search. Y
>> and so instead of starting here we get
to now have a neural network start here
and then and then you know the play gets
stronger once we then apply another
thousand steps on top of it and you can
keep going. Right. So the training
algorithm for Alph Go is to basically
take the games where you've applied the
search on every move that the policy
encountered uh whether you won or lost
and that's quite important um and you're
just going to train the model to imitate
the search process.
>> So um there's an analogy to robotics
actually which is the dagger algorithm.
>> Um uh f first I'm going to draw like a
uh schematic of like let's say you know
the states right? So S0, S1, S2, S3. So
let's say, you know, we we took a series
of actions in an MDP to
to get uh a trajectory.
And these actions may be sub-optimal,
right? Maybe we lost at the end of this
game.
So um there is a family of algorithms
that basically take trajectories uh and
relabel the actions to better
trajectories. So maybe a better action
here would have been to take you know a
z prime. A better action here would have
been to take a1 prime and yet another
one like a2 prime
a3 prime. So um
what MCTS is doing is basically saying
like you play this game where you
eventually lost but on every single
action I'm going to give you a strictly
better action that you should take
instead. It does not guarantee that you
are going to win but it does guarantee
that you know if you take these tpples
as training data so that you retrain
your uh your your policy network to
predict these ones instead of these ones
you're going to do better. And uh this
is very related to dagger in u robotics
and in imitation learning where you want
to collect a intervention here and even
if you're in a in a not great state for
example like a self-driving car that you
know veers off the side of the road
there is still a valid action that kind
of corrects you and brings you back.
>> Yeah. Okay. So um pedantic question but
is there a guarantee that MCTS must be
better than the policy? For example, you
could imagine early on in training
because MCTS is informed by the value
network. Yeah. early on in training uh
when the value network hasn't been well
trained on finished uh games um that
like MCTS is worse than sort of randomly
initialized policy. So is it just like a
heristic that MCTS is better than policy
or is that like is there some guarantee
>> right in in practice it is a heristic um
and it does work in also in practice but
let me illustrate a example where MCTS
can give you a worse distribution than
your policy network. So um and this can
often happen if your self-play algorithm
um has trained to a good point but then
somehow it's uh it collapses because
it's um it's not trained on diverse data
or something right so um let's say we
have a board state where um the policy
recommendations here are very good so so
like you know pi of as is like great but
um somehow because maybe we're playing
on a lot of games where the the bots
just resign instead of playing all the
way to the Trump Taylor resolution, they
kind of forget um how to evaluate those
kind of late stage plants, right? Like
in the in the case that we showed with
the corner play, maybe like 100% of our
training data in our replay buffer has
lost examples of how to evaluate the
value function at those states. So you
might end up in a scenario where your
terminal value um is like very bad. And
if the terminal values of the leaves are
not good, then this will actually
propagate all the way up and cause your
um your your puck selection criteria and
your backups to be off and then you'll
end up visiting a very very different
distribution than what your policy
initially recommended.
>> Um also if your number of sims is low
then you might also have a variance
issue where you just don't explore
enough, right? Like like a it's only
guaranteed to converge when you kind of
take n to infinity. Um so so variance in
you know your search process as well as
inaccuracies in your evaluation can
definitely screw with the quality of
your policy validation and so that's why
it's not a guarantee to improve but and
that is why I think I I suspect why
AlphaGo Lee had the uh playouts to the
end in their training algorithm so they
could ground this thing in real plays.
>> Yeah. Um, in practice, what you could
also do is just like for 10% of the
games, you you prevent the bots from
resigning and you just say like resolve
it to the end. So, you get some training
data in your replay buffer to really
resolve those kind of like latest stage
playouts that normal human players would
would kind of uh not play to.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> So, um, so this is why MCTS kind of if
you assume that the value functions are
correct, uh, why it gives you a better
policy is because yeah, assume and it's
a very critical, you know, chain of
assumptions. Assuming that this is
accurate, then uh your search process
should give you a better recommendation
than your initial guess,
>> right? Okay. So, if you have a cold
started policy, uh you have an alpha
zero type thing, really what's happening
for the first few epochs is the policy
is kind of useless. And what you're
really just doing is hey, let's play
full games. And uh once we have a played
full games for the preceding moves,
we'll have labeled
who won, who didn't win, and the loss
for Alpha Zero has two components, which
is like how good is the policy relative
to MCTS and how good is the value
prediction relative to who actually won
the game from this move. And this is
this sort of like you can think of this
being applied to every single action or
every single move.
>> Correct? And really what's happening at
the beginning of alpha zero training is
just like we're trying to get the value
function to actually predict who will
win the game if you're if you find
yourself in this state and you're this
player uh and functionally that's all
that's happening and later on once
that's well trained now the policy is
also improving
>> correct
>> okay
>> one trick I did find to be pretty useful
and this is not a peer-reviewed claim so
just like take this with a grain of salt
is like I I found it useful in my own
imple implementation to do do the
following um you want to first make sure
that this is good before you invest a
lot of cycles doing MC tests, right?
Like like it it doesn't really make a
lot of sense to do search on garbage
value predictions. Um so so you want to
kind of start at a good place where this
works. Alph does a very good thing where
it just takes human games and then you
you like uh trade on it and it just
works, right?
>> Totally works. Um you could also take an
open source go play against itself um
generate data also works. Uh so so if
you have some like offline data set that
um that uh has realistic good play you
can easily learn the latest stage um
value functions pretty well and that's
the that's what you kind of need to
start the search process.
>> Sorry can you just read this sentence
one more time?
>> Sure. So so um it it's quite easy to
evaluate a late stage go game like when
almost all the pieces are on the board
>> like it's almost like a decidable
problem right because it's the lower and
lower uncertainty as to like the depth
of the tree. So um most games played to
the end by reasonable people um will be
good training data to train a good value
function at terminal parts of the tree.
>> Got it. Okay.
>> Then as you play more games the um the
the search will back up good values into
the the sort of intermediate nodes of
the tree. And then like as you increase
the amount of data your your value head
gets a good intuition of like what is a
healthy board state versus a not healthy
board state. Yeah. That that those are
much more subtle to judge in the midame
than the beginning or the end. So, so
the most difficult part to score is like
not the beginning or the because the
beginning is just like obviously 0.5 and
then at the end it's like pretty obvious
who's winning. So, so the hard part that
you want to learn in the value function
is like who is winning in the middle
>> and so this is this is actually very
analogous to TD learning.
>> Yes. And there's a a beautiful
connection to TD learning that we can
you know talk about in a bit uh as
opposed to you know contrasting with
Monte Carlo research. So um so you first
want to get good value functions and
expert data can kind of give you a quick
shortcut. I recommend for you know
practitioners just do that first just to
you know initialize to a good starting
point and then if you want to do the
alpha zero thing or um or kadigo kind of
tab raza learning um then what you can
try to do is on a small board play
random games just take a random agent
and if you play like uh you know 50,000
games you'll actually learn a pretty
good value function as well because on a
9 by9 board there's actually um you can
see enough of the common patterns with
random play and then if you train a
model that kind of can train on both 9
by9 in 19 by9 data um and Katago was a
was a proposed one of these
architectures then um there's some
pretty good transfer learning from the
value uh value head evaluated at 9 by9
to the 19 by9
>> right because this this unlike other
games has much like a very much a sense
of like there's not like a new kind of
piece that is introduced when you
increase the size or something
>> if if we take it to its limit and
consider like a very tiny like 4x4
goboard like if you play 50,000 games
you're going to have a lot of end states
that look like human play right like
it's just like tic-tac-toe at that point
So, so if you like broaden this a little
bit to like 9 by 5 x 5 or 9 by 9, it's
not unrealistic to imagine that like
purely random play will actually
generate pretty reasonable looking
boards. Um, and then so you can score
those pretty easily. And so that is what
gives you the bootstrapping to be able
to then improve your policy with search.
>> But it's very very critical that MCTS
has accurate value uh estimates and you
need to ground the value. Ultimately
MCTS will fall apart if you don't have a
grounding uh function for um for the
value. I I'd be curious how much compute
you save by training the value and
policy on the same network that because
they share the same representations, how
much more efficient learning is because
that would be interesting if um they're
basically kind of we've just talked
about how they're kind of making similar
predictions or they should be in line
with each other. Yeah.
>> And so I'd be curious if like actually
yeah you just you're you're like having
the amount of compute you had to do by
keeping the same network.
>> Right. AlphaGo Lee, the original AlphaGo
paper had two separate networks and then
um in all subsequent papers um they they
merged them into two heads and
presumably this saves compute. But
answering that question in a very
rigorous scientific way is actually uh
it's it's a simple question but but in
practice actually takes like if you
really want to chase that question down
to its its limit. It's uh it takes quite
a bit of work to you know really solve
that.
>> Um but intuitively yes they share a lot
of representations. So, so and you know
as we mentioned there is there is a sort
of like your your policy network and
your value network when doing evaluation
should kind of agree right so there
there really should be this sort of
consistency between them.
>> Yeah. Tell me if this is the wrong way
to think about it. I feel like when I
learn how an LLM works and how simple
RLVR is, at least
as an algorithm, how simple it is, I'm
sort of stunned by the kinds of things
it can do. Uh that it can learn how to
build very complicated code repositories
and whatever simply from getting like a
yes no. And here I feel like the if you
understand it more deeply of like just
predicting MCTS and
it actually seems AlphaGo seems less
impressive in retrospect the more you
understand it because you're like oh
you're putting in a lot of bias by just
saying how much you you're like telling
it how we should titrate exploration as
things go on you're building this very
explicit uh tree search for it and so I
don't know if you show that intuition
where it actually the more you
understand it the less impressive the
accomplishment in 2017 seems themes.
>> I uh I personally disagree. I I think
they're profound for different reasons
and I don't understand the LM RL like
enough to like kind of comment on your
podcast about it. Um but um
>> I think AlphaGo so so yeah, why is it a
profound accomplishment? I think maybe
it's worth stepping back a little bit
and just like
>> uh it is different than modern RL and we
can talk a little bit about like some of
the algorithmic choices there but um I
think the most profound thing here is
that a um a 10 layer neural network pass
so basically uh 10 steps of 10 steps of
reasoning.
>> Yeah.
>> And of course the reasoning is not just
one trail of thought. It could be like
the distributed representations and a
lot of thoughts going on at the same
time. But uh by construction, let's say
a 10- layer neural network can only do
10 sequential steps of thinking, right?
>> Um 10 steps of neural network paralyzed
distributed representation thinking is
able to amortize and approximate to a
very very high fidelity a nearly
intractable search problem. Yeah.
>> So, so this was a breakthrough that I
think most people don't even understand
today like fully comprehend like how
profound that accomplishment is. And
then this is what also girds like um
alpha fold for example, right? Like um
uh where you have a very very difficult
physical simulation process that you
would need to roll out so many
microscale simulations and yet like 10
steps of a somewhat small neural network
can somehow capture what feels like a
you know MPL class uh problem into a
single um problem. And and so I I it it
actually makes me wonder if you know our
understanding of problems like P equals
NP or you know these very fundamental
like computational hardness problems are
>> incomplete right like like it's not like
you know obviously this is not a proof
of like P= MP or anything but but
there's something to it that like kind
of is very disturbing where like what
felt like a very hard problem can fall
to a very very simple macroscopic
simulation.
That is a very interesting insight that
a lot of problems which are proven to be
np hard like I don't know if go is
proven to be np hard but okay protein
folding etc have been like neural
networks can solve them because they're
np hard in the worst case but we're not
dealing with the worst we're usually not
concerned about the worst case we're you
know these problems have a lot of
structure to them usually
>> yeah I I think that the the the kind of
question we should be asking ourselves
is like we've been formulating you know
solutions to MP hard problems as in like
kind of worst case complexity
>> and I wouldn't say you know this solves
go right it doesn't give us a exact
solution of the optimum
>> but in practice like it is extremely
useful
>> and the same thing has been shown in
like alpha tensor alpha fold where like
>> yes there is a very hard problem that in
the worst case seems intractable and yet
we're able to make like almost arbitrary
amounts of progress so so here's a sort
of like uh you know in the limit what is
what what what might this look like
right well um if you want to simulate
you know something very complex like
weather or um predict the future like
you know do we live in a simulation or
not. Um the computing resources you need
to build a very complex simulation might
be much smaller than you think based on
you know our ability to amortize a lot
of that computation into the forward
pass of a single network.
>> Interesting. So to me, yeah, Alpha Gold
was the first paper that kind of like
really showed this like profound level
of, you know, simulation being
compressed into a small amount of
>> um I feel totally not at all qualified
on the computational complexity of the
math to comment on this, but I wonder if
um there's an important role of chaos
here where
if under what is the problem with
weather and why does it take 10x the
amount of resources to predict weather a
day out? uh and continually so for every
more day out is because it's a chaotic
system and so small perturbations can
totally change the final estimate as as
time goes on and um I guess it's
interesting well I guess you would
expect that for go and protein folding
as well
>> so here's an analogy to weather that
that might be relevant in go so um the
problem of like you know here's our
current board state
>> um
given what we know about both players
what is the board state in the future?
>> Yeah.
>> What is the exact board state in the
future? Right? This is
>> uh this is extremely sensitive to
initial conditions like a single stone
place here can kind of disrupt the
entire prediction. Yeah. Right.
>> So this is hard. This is kind of
intuitively the chaotic problem. Um
>> and yet somehow
so this is this is hard. Somehow we can
predict who's going to win.
>> Yeah.
>> Like and this captures a lot of
possibilities here. M
>> and so there's this more macroscopic
quantity that we really care about which
is the average or expectation or some
sort of global macro structure over a
lot of like you know possible futures.
>> Interesting way to think about it.
>> And so so in in weather it could be the
same thing right like we don't exactly
care like what the you know velocity of
wind 6,000 uh feet above a specific
latitude longitude is. We kind of care
like where's the hurricane or you know
you know things like that. And and I
would say like in chaos, you know,
there's a classic like Lorenza tractor
which kind of looks like this, right? Um
yes, you you don't if you start anywhere
on the Lorenza tractor, you don't know
where you're going to end up,
>> but you you do know that the thing looks
like this.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Right. And and so there's this kind of
beauty of like sometimes we don't
necessarily care about the microscale
things. We actually care about the
macroscopic structure.
>> Interesting.
>> And and these things can be predictable.
>> And contrast that say to something like
a hash function which is also incredibly
dependent on initial conditions. but
doesn't have a macro structure at least
hopefully if like the work. Yes.
>> Um and so there's like no equivalent of
a value function or like broadly how's
the weather going to be that is
interesting there. It's really just
about what is the move what is a board
going to look like 100 moves from now.
Exactly.
>> Uh yes intuitively that seems correct. I
I uh and then again this is also out of
my my area of expertise but I um I find
it interesting that like cryptography
has not been able to like um the tools
of cryptography and uh you know um
hashing have also not been able to prove
that like uh you cannot come up with
fast approximation like you cannot come
up with fast approximations right if
that if they were able to do that then
you could prove p is not equal to m
>> yeah yeah in fact we know that there's
structure in many cryptographic
protocols obviously like uh uh rsa
cryptography there is structure and that
structure is what quantum computers
exploit to to break them. Right.
>> I see.
>> Um Reiner has a very interesting blog
post which we talked about in the
episode where he uh talks about how if
you look at at a high level what
cryptographic protocols look like and
what neural networks look like. It's
extremely similar
>> where you have sequential layers of
jumbling information together. And it's
because there's been this convergent
devolution in the algorithms where in
cryptography you want the final state to
be incredibly sensitive to initial
conditions so that it can come out sort
of looking jumbled based on if you
change anything and then neural networks
you similarly want everything to be
dependent on all the information because
you want to process all the information
and consider how it relates to itself.
>> Yeah, you have the maximum power of a
neural network at the edge of chaos. Um
I think there's some like research
papers from uh Joshua Schlick's team on
on on this.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. Like like there's something kind
of quite fundamental about like chaos
that is it's not just like hopeless
noise. It's like there's something kind
of useful, right, in in um in chaotic
systems at least at that boundary. Um
>> but yeah, this is just my like think
about as a philosophy. I don't I don't
actually know the math uh well enough to
comment on it. Anyway, if we um go back
to um we'll talk about LMRL in a little
bit because there's some connections
there, but let's just go back to like
the MCTS like what is it doing? It is
not um crucially it is not saying we're
going to uh increase the probability of
winning directly. It's not going to say
like we're going to um upweight all
actions that won and downweight all
actions that didn't win. Yeah. Um,
importantly, what it is doing is saying
for every action we took, we did a
pretty exhaustive search uh on MCTS to
see if we could do better and we're just
going to make every action that we took
better by predict like having the policy
network predict that outcome instead.
And and so this is um a very very nice
idea because you have one supervision
target for every single action.
>> Yeah.
>> So the the variance of your your
learning signal is very low compared to
the alternative naive RL thing. So, so
let's actually consider what let's
consider a very naive algorithm uh uh
that looks a lot more like you know
modern LM RL today where where we do
something like um let's take the winner
of a self-play game and encourage it to
do more of that. Okay. So, uh it's worth
kind of thinking a a little bit about
like, okay, what are some alternatives
that we could do to train self-play
agents instead of MCTS, right? Like, you
know, we use a lot of uh LM style RL
these days. Like, is that relevant?
Could we do that instead? Um so, so
let's think through this a little bit.
Let's suppose we have a very naive
algorithm where we take a league of
agents of different checkpoints and we
play them against each other. And um for
for the games where a single player
wins, uh we're going to reinforce those
actions up and then and then uh and and
train retrain the policy network to
imitate those those guys instead of uh
instead of the MCTS objective. Um so
what ends up happening is let's say you
have a chain of actions that led to a
win and you're you're you have a matchup
between two agents that are basically
the same. So in fact, let's just assume
that like uh you know policy A and
policy B are like evenly matched, right?
So they're true their true win rate is
is like 50%.
Um so let's say you play a 100 games
and then uh each game let's say lasts
you know 300 um moves
and um you're doing some sort of like
evolution strategy or some way to
perturb these things to get them get
them to do different things or maybe you
don't and you just play them against
each other and you see like occasionally
this one might actually have a better
strategy than this one, right? And so so
let's say um you know 51 games um policy
A wins
and then 49 games policy B wins. And
this is just due to random luck or maybe
you perturbed policy A in some way that
let it do this. And just to have a very
very simple model let's pretend that for
u for like uh 49 of the games they
played exactly equally. Um, I'm sorry.
For for 50 of the games, they they
played exactly equally, right? Um, and
on that one game where this one won, it
it played slightly differently. It made
like one critical move that like, you
know, normally it would have done
differently, but due to some exploration
or some random noise, it just happened
to make a smarter move than it did
previously.
>> So, you have one supervision signal,
like one true supervision signal for
your policy network. Um,
and then you have uh 99 games times 300
moves for which uh imitating those
actions gives you exactly the same
policy you had before.
>> And so the um the scale of your variance
is actually very bad because it's like
you only have one label out of this
enormous data set of of actions of
supervision actions where you want
actually sorry let me let me let me
clarify a little bit. Okay, so we were
just talking about how the good move,
the out of distribution move is a small
fraction of all the moves that are
played across all the games on which
you'd want to train. And um this of
course reminds me of how LLMs are
trained with policy gradient methods. Uh
Karpathi was when he was on the podcast
called it like sucking supervision
through a straw. Um and uh and so yeah
it's interesting that this like this
thing you're saying which would be
intractable and prevents you from
actually getting beyond a certain level
in go is just by default how LM are
trained question mark
>> right so um in this case this is not to
say it doesn't work right like if you
imagine increasing the number of games
to like you know millions of samples you
actually can get some meaningful
supervision like samples so long as you
find a way to sort of mask out the
supervision from these guys and then
this is where things start to get pretty
related to RL in terms of advantage and
baselines and so forth. So, so let's um
let's look at the, you know, the
gradient variance of a very naive
approach like this where um I'm just
going to call it like gradient RL and
it's basically the you know sum of
rewards.
Okay, I see what you're saying.
So, so the sum of rewards is the return,
right? So, so like uh in in our naive
setup here, we only have a indicator
variable for the return where either you
won or lost. So
um so in the case where you lost well
you just don't train on your gradient is
zero you don't train on those examples
and when you won you try to predict
those those things right so so you can
think about this setup as a as a special
case of this general formula here
>> um the um the trouble here is that this
is very high variance because when you
multiply these terms out when you take
when you try to compute the variance of
this and so so variance of the gradient
is equal to expectation of
squared minus
and just for simplicity we can pretend
this is like you know on average zero or
something if if you're centering it at
at you know no signal. Um and uh the
variance here basically means that
you're you know taking the square of
this product term and so you end up with
uh a term that kind of grows
quadratically with the with t. So so
variance um when you have a setup like
this this thing acts as a coupling
effect on top of of these terms here.
So, um
um let's actually map this to an LM case
and we can answer like why do LLMs only
do onestep RL instead of a multi-step RL
scenario.
Um in LM you have a decoder that might
you know predict some words like hello
world.
And so in current LMRL they treat this
entire sequence as a single action just
a t and big t is just one right. And so
yes it is true that you know the uh
because of how you know transformers are
formulated uh through the sort of
product of conditional probabilities. Um
we do have uh you know probability of
this sequence is equal to the sort of
sum of log probability of the whole
sequence is equal to the sum of the
probabilities of like you know uh
individual tokens right so so in this
case I would um
I would say something like you know log
hell plus log
low
plus log world. So um this is true
and if this term were one then they
would be the same thing. However, um in
sampling things, if you have a reward
term assigned to every specific token,
now you have these interaction effects
between the cross multiplication of
these terms and these terms,
>> right?
>> And so the problem becomes how do you
ascribe the credit associated with every
episode to all these different terms
here?
>> I guess the thing I'm confused on is
what would that even look like to do it
that way in um
>> in LMS? in LLMs because you do you only
do get a reward at the end of the
episode. So
>> you could imagine a reward that says
like I'm gonna give you some process
supervision. Yeah.
>> Uh where you get a reward for each of
these actions on every step.
>> Okay. So you're saying if instead of
doing it that way where you um well I
guess the way you've written it, it
would be a sum at the end anyways. So it
would they wouldn't have to be
multiplied. But you're saying instead of
doing it that way, you would just add up
this process rewards at the end and then
treat that as one single reward signal.
>> Correct. For one single log action.
>> But um isn't that how it's written to
begin with anyways? Like the sum of the
uh rewards.
>> So So the the thing that's a little bit
hidden here in the math is that we're
assuming that when you decompose the
problem to a multi-step problem that
you're now introducing kind of
correlations between your actions
through the computation of this guy. And
uh so if you separate these things out
then there will be um this this will
magnify the variance of of this one
>> right
>> so in in the case where you don't
separate it out if you just have t=
equals 1 you just have a single estimate
of log prop and a single estimate of
reward.
>> Now um there are this this term still
shows up in L. So in LM it looks a
little bit more like the naive
reinforced estimator looks a bit like
return of the single action plus uh
times you know
it looks kind of like this. This is sort
of the very uh basic form here but this
is still a contributor to variance. Um,
so you want to make sure that like you
don't uh similar to how in this case we
were training on a lot of neutral
labels. You want to make sure that
you're subtract you're sort of
penalizing the labels that don't help
and only rewarding the ones that
actually make you better. Right?
>> Right. So intuitively the analogy here
is like can we find a a term in our
training objective such that it's
actually kind of discouraged from doing
this or you know these don't have any
effect on the gradient and this has an
effect on the gradient.
>> Right? I I guess if you applied that
there, the only thing you could do is
eliminate
49 of the games. So at least the way you
have earned there, you would be um 51
times actually the optimal case is to
pull out discard all of these moves and
only get a gradient on that single move
that you got better.
>> Yeah. H but how would you do that?
>> Right. So this is a a pretty tricky
problem in practice. Um and so this is
where advantage estimation happens in
reinforcement learning. So you want to
subtract
um you know a term from
from um
from your your multiplier instead of an
indicator function of like one and zero.
You want something that kind of behaves
like a zero for all of these guys
>> and then a one for all these ones.
>> Yeah. But you so you could do that if
they're um if you can say, "Hey, I won
in this game, so this is slightly above
baseline performance."
>> Well, you won on a lot of games. Uh
>> exactly.
>> But but you don't know which ones let
you win because they were truly better
versus winning on access.
>> How would you design a baseline where
it's truly better?
>> Yeah. So this is where in RL people use
things like TDarning to better
approximate the quality function, the Q
that we mentioned earlier. So you can
try to subtract that from your um your
your your return. So so ideally what you
really want to do is in RL you want to
um push up the actions that make you
better than the average and um push down
the actions that make you worse than the
average. And they call this advantage.
There are multiple ways to compute it. I
highly recommend John Schulman's general
advantage estimation paper as like a
good, you know, treatment on how to um
how to like think about various ways to
compute it. But the at the end of the
day you know um you you want to reduce
variance by trying to make this smaller
and so it doesn't magnify the variance.
>> So but um this requires you to have a
very good estimate of what average
performance from a state would look
like. And this is this gets gets us back
to the value function thing we're
talking about earlier,
>> right? And and so this uh keep in mind
that in this case this model free RL
setting uh is trying to solve a credit
assignment problem where you don't know
which actions were actually good and
which ones were bad.
>> Monte Carlo research is doing something
very fundamentally different which is
it's not trying to do credit assignment
on wins. It's trying to improve the uh
the label for any given action you took.
And so we can actually think about a
completely different algorithm called
neural fictitious selfplay which was
used uh to great effect in uh systems
like Alphaar and um and OpenAI's Dota.
>> Um so so let me talk a little bit about
how um how you can kind of unify some of
these RL ideas in the model free setting
as well as the selfplay setting.
>> Okay. So what happens if you don't have
the ability to easily search a tree,
right? Like in go it's a perfectly
observable game. you can easily
construct a pretty deep tree that
completely captures the game state in a
game like Starcraft where you don't have
really complete control over the binary.
It's it's a little bit hard to do this
and I'm not even sure if it's a it's a
deterministic game, right? So So that
makes this uh kind of difficult from a
data structures perspective. So um what
is done instead is that the basic idea
of supervising your actions with a
better teacher is still there, right?
So, so if in a given neural fictitious,
so we're going to talk a little bit
about how neural fictitious selfplay
works.
Same idea. We're going to like come up
with better labels for each of the
actions we took just like in MCTS. But
how do we derive the better labels?
In MCTS, we uh perform search to and
assuming we have a good value function,
the search will kind of give us a better
result than our initial guess. In um in
a game where you can't easily simulate a
search process, what they do instead is
train what is known as a best response
policy.
So you fix your opponent. So let's say
you you're you're currently training pi
A against
um a strong opponent pi B. Uh in
Starcraft maybe like you know the are
the zergs and you're playing protos or
something. Um
so you fix your opponent and you treat
this as a classic model free RL
algorithm where your goal is just to
beat this guy. And so here you use your
standard TD learning style tricks or use
PO or any actually like you know model
free RL algorithm to try to hill climb
against winning this player. And so um
you train you train uh basically you you
have a reward function that's like you
know return is like you know
one if wins
against
IB. So this is no longer a self-play
kind of problem, right? This is just
like a fixed opponent and you're just um
solving trying to maximize um a score
against against that and then you know
zero otherwise. And so you're you have a
sort of fixed environment where all you
care about is just beating this guy. And
um once you have a good policy that you
trained with uh you know pick your
favorite model free R algorithm PO or
SAC or you know any kind of mixture of
the or you know uh VMPO or whatever um
you now have a good policy that gives
you a good label for what this one
should do when playing against that
player. And when you train multiple best
response policies you can basically then
distill the RL algorithms into the
labels for a given opponent. So you
might have let's say a best response
policy against pi B and then maybe you
have a colleague of you know um of
opponents like pi B pi C pi D and you're
going to take the best response policy
that you train against each of these
fixed opponents and for this one you're
going to uh supervise them with the
label that this one would provide. So it
is kind of like this is almost like a
proxy for your M MCTS teacher, right?
Instead of MCS teacher, you use a model
free RL algorithm to find the best
search action that you could do to uh to
to kind of beat your opponent. And then
you're finally you're distilling the um
the policy here into what is known as
like a a mix strategy where it's trying
to basically average across all possible
opponents you could play against. And
this is what gives you something that
can do no worse than like you know an
averagely average selected opponent from
the league. And and so this gets around
the problem of having to derive a
teaching signal from MCTS, but it still
fundamentally is about relabeling your
your your states with better actions so
that they improve your policy.
>> And just make sure you understand this
is like if you win against win a game
against this other policy, you sort of
reinforce all the actions.
>> Yes.
>> On that trajectory.
>> Yeah. So here you can use a number of
algorithms like PO VMPO
um you know Q-learning even if you want
like
>> uh the specific algorithm here um can be
you know it's usually a model free thing
because you don't have search but
there's an interesting connection from
MCTS and Q-learning that I I want to you
know bring up so in MCTS you do
something where you have a tree
and through the resolution of your your
value function at the at the leaves of
the tree or you know your approximate
leaves of the tree, you can kind of back
up through through the you know the the
sequence of many sequences and then
obtain some sort of mean value estimate
right your Q is kind of derived from the
average of a bunch of simulations. Um in
model free algorithms
there is often a component uh of
estimating a Q value and so um and Q Q
values are often learned through TD
learning although in PO the the way that
they do advantage estimation is not
necessarily through a Bellman backup but
um but in Q-learning there's this kind
of very cool trick where um you do
you know QSA is backed up as R plus you
know some discount factor times the max
a Q of your next step. So intuitively
how this works is like if you have a MDP
and then this is like you know terminal.
What this is sort of saying is that like
the best action you can take at this uh
state is equal to the reward you take
for you know taking this action plus the
best that you can do at the next state.
So there's a sort of recursive and
dynamic programming property of of MDPs
and you can train neural networks to
basically try to enforce this this con
this uh consistency right so you can say
like well once I know the Q value of
this action I can then use that to kind
of compute something about the Q value
>> so when earlier I was like hey why are
we training a policy why don't we just
train the value alone that that is what
this is
>> um this is a algorithm for recovering
value estimates of intermediate steps
when you don't have the ability to do
forward search.
>> So you must collect a trajectory first
of like n steps before you're able to do
this trick.
>> Um but the intuition is kind of the same
which is that like knowing something
about the Q value here
>> can tell you something about the Q value
here and indeed you can recover a policy
from a Q value right. So so the um you
don't need to explicitly model the
policy distribution you can actually
recover the policy distribution by doing
argmax over your um your Q values. Yeah.
So, so Q uh Q-learning or um you know
this kind of like uh approximate dynamic
programming kind of propagates what you
know about the future cues backward like
this, right? And you can see that
there's a sort of similar structure that
goes on here where uh in in this case
you're planning over trajectories your
agent hasn't actually been to yet.
Whereas in this case you're planning
over trajectories your your agent has
visited.
>> Um so so importantly why does Q-learning
you know why was Q-learning a big deal?
Right? like it's because historically we
just haven't had the ability to do
search on fairly high dimensional
problems like robotics or whatever. So
for a long time we kind of make the
assumption that like okay well if we
can't model the dynamics with like a
world model or something we're going to
instead just collect trajectories
>> and then plan with respect to the only
number that really matters which is
reward.
>> Okay so this is very interesting and
then to unify this with our discussion
of LLMs. So with LLMs you're doing
something you don't have Q values but
you're doing this sort of backwards
learning where hey let's find the
trajectories which pass some unit test
in some coding environment and then
let's reinforce those trajectories
>> and then there's a huge difference
between that and this forward approach
with MCTS and the reason you can do MCTS
and it's much more preferable to do MCTS
because you can do it per move uh and
make each move better rather than having
to learn per trajectory um and hope you
know as Karpathi hope to learn this like
straw.
>> Yeah. To get the supervision through a
straw. Uh basically just upgrade all the
tokens in a trajectory that might or
might not have been relevant to getting
the answer right. The reason you can do
this much more sort of sample efficient
uh much more favorable thing with go is
that because MCTS works in go you
basically know that hey if I just do
search locally here and this search is
sort of truncated at the end by this
value function that uh works even even
if I haven't unfolded my whole
trajectory I can just say this is my new
policy um and I can improve in a more
iterative like local way rather than
having to
h having to unfold all these
trajectories.
>> So there was some research I think from
Google in 2030 2023 2024 where they did
try to apply tree structures to
reasoning.
>> Yeah.
>> And I think it's you know the jury is
still out as to whether this can ever
work. So I I would say like uh it we
probably will see like you know
revisiting of this idea of forward
search um in in the future. But there's
two things that make MCTS very simple
for go which is that value estimation is
kind of concrete and you can determine
it for real and then you can kind of uh
uh sort of use it to truncate depth as
you said and then the uh breath is also
uh determined
>> and what's kind of critical is that the
action selection algorithm where you
iteratively visit and grow the tree is
um well suited for the size of problem
that go is and the depth of the problem
but for something like LLM reasoning um
you know puck might not be a good enough
heristic. It might be too greedy with
local tokens and it might do something
like oh only give you, you know, uh sort
of obvious thoughts that are correct but
not really solve your final problem.
>> So I I would say the jury is probably
still out on how like what the final
instantiation of reasoning for LM would
look like. And I wouldn't rule out that
like this stuff could, you know, come
back, but it's a bit hard.
>> Don't LM sort of natively learn to do
MCTS where they'll try an approach and
be like, "Oh, that doesn't work. let's
back up, let's try this other thing and
then go in the direction that proves to
be more fruitful.
>> Uh yeah, c certainly I think the LLM's
managed to do something that looks like
real human reasoning without having to
do an explicit tree structure.
>> Um
>> that being said, I think the idea of
doing forward search and simulation to
get a better sense of what is valuable
might make a comeback. um even though
not exactly in the same instantiation as
as uh Alfa
>> but u just to make sure I understand the
crux of it like the the breadth from the
number of legal actions being wider and
the depth from being able to not being
able to train a value function as easily
because
>> so here's an example where LM's break
down the cuck rule involves you know
square root of n over 1 + n a
>> in an LLM like you're most likely never
going to sample the same uh child more
than once, right? So, if you have, let's
say, multi-steps of thinking, um because
language is so broad and open-ended,
it's uh a sort of uh discrete set of
actions is not really an appropriate
choice for an LLM. Uh even though
they're discrete tokens, um it's just
such a large number that this type of
exploration heristic is probably not the
right thing to do to guide how to search
down a tree,
>> right? But I I guess the crux comes down
to the fact that in go you know that the
MCTS is almost certainly better than
your current policy even though you
haven't gotten even though you haven't
explored the end of any trajectory.
>> Correct.
>> And then in u in normal reasoning for
LLMs or robotics there's no way to just
locally evaluate and improve your next
move in a way that doesn't result in in
a way that's independent of actually
like solving the problem.
>> Uh no way is a strong word. I think lots
of people have thought about how to try
to apply MCTS or its kind of successors
like new zero to continuous control
spaces and I'm sure you know very cool
research work is still ongoing to try to
crack that problem. Um but yes, the the
seeming challenge right now is that like
most problems in much higher uh
dimensional um you know action spaces or
something that's combinatorally much
bigger like language they they don't
seem as amendable to the kind of
discrete action selection heristics as
well as uh kind of game evaluation type
stuff that uh go does. Um but that's not
to say the idea of like you know
thinking into the future along multiple
parallel tracks might not give you some
information about like which way to
search right like if you think about
mathematics I think mathematics often
occupies a little bit more of like a
logical search kind of procedure where
you kind of can back up you can kind of
see like which paths seem good or not
there's a more of a rigid structure
there whereas maybe like in a uh you
know business negotiation or something
um it's less of a tree and maybe you
know something a bit
Okay, so we're now seated so I can ask
you some more questions about AlphaGo
and about AI research more generally.
Um, in 2021, Andy Jones had a paper
called scaling scaling loss reward
games. And um, he basically anticipated
inference compute or inference scaling
by showing that you can trade off test
time compute and uh, training compute.
That is to say that you can spend more
compute on the forward the searching
through the MCTS. Um and if you do that
you can get the equivalent performance
as having spent more time training the
model. Um and so if you you know if you
see this pattern you might think okay
well with LLMs you might do something
like that in the future and in fact
that's what had ended up happening. Okay
so what is a kind of fun exploration one
could do now to explore other axes of
scaling in toy settings which will be
important to understanding what AI
development might be like in a few
years.
>> Sure. Yeah. Um I think that indeed test
time scaling and uh reasoning and how it
interacts with model size are quite
profound when it comes to like how much
uh needs to be actually done as explicit
search versus how much can be packed
into the forward pass of a neural
network right and and um how does a
forward pass of a neural network sort of
learn how to do something that should be
a sort of sequential and you know
recursive step that's quite interesting
um so the yeah the Andy Jones scaling
laws for board games paper is quite
Cool. There's another really nice result
from that paper where they where he
showed that um not only can you predict
scaling loss of like you know the sort
of LM variety where um as you increase
parameters you can decrease the amount
of compute for search or vice versa. Um
>> he also showed that you can actually
predict uh how much compute is needed to
solve a uh larger version of the board
game. uh for example and and so with go
you know which can scale from you know
uh 3x3 to infinitely sized you know uh
go board you might actually be able to
sort of revisit this question and try to
reproduce uh whether this shows up u you
know I actually started this project
with this sort of a motivation that like
does the bitter lesson or does our
knowledge of scaling laws allow us to
kind of execute a lot better on a sort
of compute optimal gobot and can we can
we kind of build a strong gobot without
all the katago tricks right just just by
really focusing on the bitter lesson and
scaling laws um I have not been
successful so far, but I think it's it's
sort of a a fact that like usually when
you want scaling laws to work, you want
to be in the regime where um the the
recipe already works and the data sets
are good rather than trying to kind of
figure out how to do scaling while also
trying to figure out what the the right
data set are. Okay. So, so this is like
the scientific understanding component
in research often follows a step where
you get something to work first and then
you use that um system to collect data
that then helps you build a mental model
of how things work such as scaling laws,
right? And and so usually actually if
you want to build a strong gobot using
scaling laws, you you actually have to
make a strong go first and then use the
scaling laws to kind of extrapolate a
bit farther into the future.
>> Say more just so I understand. First of
all, you're saying scaling laws did not
work or you could not there was no
scaling loss pattern that you could see
in your robot.
>> Yeah. So, um a mistake I made initially
when I had some bugs around how MCTS
labeling was working was I would um I
would collect a bunch of data with an
expert policy and then treat it as a
supervised learning problem and try to
identify scaling laws with uh expert
data sets. um you can indeed plot things
that look kind of like this. But if
you're in a regime where you know your
policy is not working well, you might be
just studying scaling laws on like bad
data, right? So so just like one
important implementation detail is that
if you want to study a scaling laws
problem, you kind of have to have a
problem for which like the data is good,
the architecture is good and there's no
bugs and then like you you you solve it
there. um x anti I wasn't able to like
apply scaling laws to direct what what
to look on look look at um until you
know I had the rest of the system
working and and this sounds obvious like
to to researchers of course you want to
have like a working bug-free system
before you study scaling but uh just as
a sort of advice for practitioners on
like where I actually tripped up when I
started this project was you don't
necessarily want to kind of jump into
the science of studying your man-made
artifact before your man-made artifact
is like interesting enough to be studied
>> speaking of compute so if You can look
at these charts of compute used to train
the best AI model in the world over time
going back 10 years and it's a very
smooth line in log space uh that is
exponentially growing year-over-year uh
except there's this huge aberration and
that aberration is off like a zero uh
which is trained on way more compute
than any other AI model at the time. It
was like uh three E23 flops and they're
sort of comparable to like a Frontier
LLM. I mean, orders of magnitude off,
but still. Um and so yeah, the question
is especially with you being able to get
something off in your own
>> uh I got a donation from Prime
Intellect. Okay.
>> For like about 10K and then I spent um I
spent maybe the first 4K doing um kind
of exploratory research and then uh
about 3K on the kind of final run. Yeah.
Um and then uh some some of it remaining
for serving the model for
>> cool.
>> Yeah. Is your sense that they were just
did a badge up train for it if you can
do it in 10k now?
>> Uh the compute required to be the first
to do something is always like much
larger than the compute it takes to
catch up. And it's the same story
playing out in LMS, right? Like once
someone else has done it, um you could
use tricks like distillation. You could
use um uh all sorts of like kind of
crutches to kind of bootstrap your way
to success. So with my own bot that I'm
I'veo hosted online um I actually used
uh sort of best response training
against the Kadigo models to kind of get
a strong level performance and um you
know as a time of recording I'm I'm
validating whether this can be uh I can
kind of do that first step which is to
do the tabular raza play um but
importantly for research you often want
to start from a good init right so so
the kind of simple thing I did first was
train best response agents against
kadago
>> um alpha zero team uh they did not have
any policy that they could train against
right because they were trying to do
So um and being the first to do it means
that you're prioritizing the thing
rather than like let's say the most
compute efficient uh possible
implementation. So this actually plays
out in robotics as well. Like if you
look at the kind of frontier of large
models trained for robotics um there the
scatter plot is all over the place and
there isn't a very clean line the way
that there is for frontier LMS. And and
that is because the folks training these
models often are not, you know, at the
scale where every flop counts and they
need to like kind of squeeze out the
performance of every single flop as the
dominating decision deciding factor in
pre-training, right? Instead, their
focus is more like we want a certain
capability to to show up. So we optimize
the uh training setup to kind of make it
easy to derive that capability. And once
you have that capability, well um
invariably if you scale up the compute,
you are forced to kind of make it
compute efficient because this is like
hundreds of millions of dollars we're
talking about. But um but in the past
when when compute for experiments was
kind of more plentiful or you know not
not uh not um accounted in a way that
the researcher was really responsible
for then you kind of end up with people
optimizing for things besides kind of
being on the compute optimal prio
frontier.
>> I see like speed or something.
>> Yeah. Like time to result or just
getting it to work. I think the first
AlphaGo like probably they had lots of
compute and they didn't need to be um
they didn't need to worry too much about
making it the most comput optimal thing.
>> And how much of the improvements to
compute efficiency are methods that did
not exist as of 2017 versus things which
you they could have done in 2017 but um
>> yeah great question. So, so going into
this project, I kind of knew in the back
of my mind that like things always get
easier to do over time and I wanted to
see like where where is go at given that
like it didn't seem like there has been
any major open- source you know uh
strong bot after Katago in 2020.
>> Uh and then you know reading the Katigo
paper there's a lot of clever ideas. I
was kind of wondering like okay uh let's
look let's see if the bitter lesson has
happened where like a lot of these kind
of tricks just sort of go away because
the Nvidia made faster GPUs right and
and so uh roughly where are we on that?
So um again this is not a peer-reviewed
claim. So this is just my preliminary um
you know vibe guess on like what I've
seen based on my own experiments. But it
seems like um you know architecture
choices don't matter that much. You know
transformer versus ResNet.
>> We're we're at the sort of speed of GPU
where the size of the model is not so
big that this really matters. Um
um you can actually simplify the setup
quite a lot. So instead of doing a
distributed asynchronous RL setup with
replay buffers and pushers and
collectors, you can kind of do a a dumb
synchronous thing where you like collect
you just train a supervised learning
model and then you collect again and and
so that there's like opportunities to
simplify infrastructure.
>> Um NVIDIA GPUs have indeed got faster.
So whereas Kadigo was trained on V100s,
you can train on like half the number of
you know desktop Blackwell GPUs and it
still works. Um and um some of the kind
of auxiliary supervision objectives that
Katiggo developed aren't really
necessary if you have a strong
initialization,
>> right? So so if you're initializing
against you know best uh response
training against Kadigo itself, then
your own model actually needs none of
the tricks that Katiggo needs.
>> So so then the core thing is like how
can you get as quickly as possible to
some strong opponents and um that
matters a lot more than the specific
architectural innovations but there are
still some nice comput multipliers. So I
found that training on 9x9 boards was
very nice for resolving endgame value
functions and then like if you can code
train that on a architecture that can
transfer between 9 by9 and 19 by9 then
you can really cut down the warm start
time to learn that from scratch. I think
uh Alph Go Zero their plot was um first
30 hours or so are spent basically
catching up to the supervised learning
baseline. Um and you can cut down that
time a lot by kind of pre-training on a
small board and then and then like you
know warm starting that into your you
know 19 by9 board play. Uh there were
some other stuff like you know varying
the number of sims between episodes.
this turns out to be not that sensitive
actually like you can kind of you know
fix it or increase it doesn't matter too
much um but so anyways it's kind of just
nice from a scientific perspective just
revisiting like an old paper and seeing
like what really matters
>> this is sort of a tangential question
but why is it okay to have a buffer in
alpha go because every time I talk to
any researcher they're telling me about
how bad it is to be off policy
>> but then the way a naive implementation
of alpha go zero would work is that most
of the moves in a given backward step or
in a batch of backward steps um would be
not not among the ones that were made by
the most recently trained model. So why
is that? Okay,
>> great question. Yeah, and this this gets
into the sort of fundamental off policy
versus on policy uh reinforcement
learning kind of questions. So uh as you
recall in MCTS you take actions that you
took and you reabel them to uh to take
different actions on the same states,
right? So, so the off policy part here
comes where um what if you're relabeling
states that your new policy would never
visit, right? Like what's the point?
You're kind of wasting capacity. And in
the extreme limit, imagine your
distribution of states in your training
buffer are all states that you would
never visit. Then you're basically
supervising them uh to uh take good
actions on states you would never
achieve and therefore your policy can
get really bad. Right? So this is where
off policy can really hurt um uh
AlphaGo. Um, however, if you interpret
this sort of from like the dagger
perspective, which is basically saying
like a way to kind of correct yourself
back to the optimal trajectory, uh,
given some some data, what what you kind
of want in an algorithm like this is to
have mostly states that you would visit,
but then you have a small percentage or
maybe a reasonable percentage of states
in this kind of highdimensional tube
around your optimal,
>> you know, trajectories. And any of those
states are given a supervision target to
kind of uh sort of funnel you back into
your optimal trajectory. Uh so maybe I
can just draw quickly here.
>> Great. So in
um sort of a Dagger style setup, what
your kind of optimal training data
distribution is is that here is your
optimal states and actions. So this is
like you know you want to be in this
state, you want to be in this state, you
want to be in this state and then you
win here. Um and then these are your
optimal policy actions. So these are the
these are the things that you definitely
want to train on. But to make it robust
to disturbances, um you want to make
sure that if you happen to drift off
into some other states,
>> you can kind of funnel yourself back
into
>> But why isn't this a fully general
argument for off policy training?
>> This is actually why you want to do off
policy training sometimes is that like
you you don't want to have a compounding
error where if you make a mistake, you
don't have the data of how to return
back to your optimal distribution.
>> Yeah. And so, um, optimal control does
not really say too much about like, uh,
you know, how to, uh, you know, not
accidentally get here because it's sort
of making the assumption that like once
you learn the policy, you're going to
get here. But in applications like
robotics, right, like like I don't know,
uh, a gust of wind blows you slightly
off and then now you need to like
correct, right? Um, or the friction on
one of your tires is kind of a little
bit like lower than the other wheel and
then now your car is drifting and you
got to got to like correct it. So, so
these kind of things in in like more
real environments often happen where
like um actually there's a funny uh
quote about chess and also go is like
the problem with uh the problem with go
and chess is that the other player is
always trying to do some right?
Like uh so so like you know things can
kind of drift off. Yeah.
>> And you always want to be able to
correct uh back to your back to your
winning condition. So, so your replay
buffer really should have like your, you
know, the states that your policy would
visit plus some distribution of states
that you might drift to and then how to
return back to your optimal states.
>> Yeah. Now, if you take this to the
extreme and you say like, well, let's uh
we don't have any of this data
and we're going to just like be labeling
with MCTS
um you know, states that are so far away
from our optimal behavior like this this
bag of states over here. Well, like now,
yeah, I mean, like each of them gets a
MCTS label
>> and your policy learns how to do take
sort of the best possible action here,
but you never get here. So, like you're
training your model on states you would
never reach. Uh like like this is this
is not there. So then this is a problem,
right? And and this is where off policy
can really hurt.
>> Yeah. Um so actually as as part of this
project I did try an experiment where I
took a bunch of trajectories and to try
to saturate the GPU as much as possible
what I did was I took uh you know random
states from the data set
>> and uh reran MCTS on just those states.
Right? So instead of playing a whole
game where I'm doing MCTS on every move,
I just ignore the sort of causality of
moves and just pick random board states
and I just label those with my current
network. and uh and I might revisit old
states that I've labeled before and
reabel them again with my current
network. Right? And so in practice, this
actually does work. You can actually say
like let's take some states that are
reasonable and constantly be relabeling
them um in uh in um while we're
training. and and so this actually
starts to converge on a very robotics-l
like setup which is very common which is
you have your your data set of
trajectories. Um and then you have
something like a replay buffer pusher
and these are off policy offline
trajectories, right? Your replay buffer
pusher pushes transition tpples
to to to the replay buffer
and then you have some job that's kind
of continuously
um replplanning
what the best action you should have
done instead of taking this action is
right and so in robotics it's actually
very common to use a a uh the sort of
minimized TD error so like your bellman
updater
um constantly is pulling things from
here and trying to satisfy, you know,
the QSA.
So, so um and then and then from here
you have your trainer which is trying to
fit the S to A or or or uh um fit the
you know Q to the Q target. So, so here
you can think about this as a sort of
planner, right? You vi revisit old um
states that you've been to and you take
your current model and you rethink like
what could I have done better if I
visited this and um and so this is
actually how like kind of off policy
robotic learning systems are usually
trained. Um these days there's a sort of
simpler recipe but but like you know in
the Google QT op days we kind of did did
things like this.
>> So what is the trainer? Oh yeah, the
trainer is uh you try to you try to
minimize
uh QSA
and Q target.
>> So can you explain the whole setup again
like at a high level?
>> Yeah. So you have your off policy data
that came from various policies.
>> You're constantly pushing uh transitions
that you saw before to a replay buffer.
Yeah. And then you've got this thing
called a a Bellman updater which
basically replans instead of this action
what action should I have taken at S to
have a better you know value and and the
way you enforce that is you try to
minimize the TD error. So, so actually
you given this you have S prime, right?
You you compute Q of S prime and you
find the action that should go with S
prime that makes this Q value as high as
possible
>> and then you add that to the reward here
and that gives you your actual target.
Right? So for this current SNA your Q
target is this.
So now you have a now now you send back
the Q target to to this this transition.
So, so with this tpple, you pair with
that a uh a Q target
and then here on the trainer you simply
just use supervised learning and you
minimize your current network's QSA with
its target.
>> Got it. Okay. So, in the background,
you're just like, hey, let me let me
basically think through how valuable
were all these actions actually.
>> Yeah. In a in a more optimal policy
where you're trying to maximize this,
what is the Q target of this transition?
>> It's sort of like basically daydreaming.
>> Exactly. Yeah. You can think about it's
like you're kind of going back in
hindsight and being like like given what
I've seen in the historical buffer um
like was there a better action I could
have taken? Now the connection to go
here that I I tried and it was you know
moderately successful but too complex to
kind of like open source was um you
replace this with like a MCTS reabler
where um instead of doing this kind of
target network computation you uh run
MCTS on your transition right so in in
this case you have uh your state your
action and then whether you won or not
at the game um and actually you can just
toss these two you don't you don't care
about these ones you just take your
state and you just plan MCTS
>> to get your best policy, you know, pi
>> uh on your current network, right? Not
not the network that took this action,
but your current best policy network,
you just rerun your search offline on
these transitions. And um if these are
transitions that your policy can get to,
then this actually acts as a very nice
stabilizing effect. And also the one
other benefit is that you can like kind
of fully saturate your GPU better
because you're not like blocking on the
go game to kind of like give you board
states. You just simply search across
all board states at any depth in
parallel.
>> Yeah.
>> So u and then here the trainer would be
just you know predict the MCTS label as
possible. So, so again like this kind of
works and this is quite relevant in
robotics where you're really you just
have have a lot of offline data and you
can't simulate things like MCTS but um
in practice like it does run into the
problem where you know like if the
current model is looking at states that
it would never reach then it's kind of
wasting capacity and so you have to be a
little bit careful here so um the on
policy thing and also much of RL has
kind of converged to a much more on
policy setup where they don't really try
to like directly train on off policy
data at best they use off policy data as
a way to reduce variance but not
directly influence the objective.
>> Oh sorry why have they convert to that?
>> It's just more stable.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So so like you you might use the
off policy Q as a way to do like you
know advantage computation um like uh
you know Q minus like sum of Q. Yeah,
>> that's kind of like your your or sorry
like you know sum of uh like if there's
n actions and then yeah so so like uh
>> so so like this is your value and then
this is your your kind of current q
value. So your advantage for that action
is like the average value minus your
current one. So so like people can try
to estimate Q in an off policy way and
then like just use advantage here and
then and then the the sort of if there's
a problem in these dynamics the it
doesn't like blow up your loss as much.
Um, and so in robotics, there's a kind
of convergence towards more like a using
off policy data to just shape your
rewards, but not actually be directly
your
>> I'm reminded now of our earlier
conversation of why MCTS is so favorable
as compared to the kind of, you know,
reinforce a policy gradient kind of
thing LLM do. And this might be totally
wrong, but I wrote a blog post a few
months ago about um how RL at least
policy gradient RL is even more uh
inefficient than you might think. And so
the inefficiency one thinks about
naively is the fact that you have to
roll out a whole trajectory in order to
get any learning signal at all. And so
as these trajectories become longer and
longer as an agent has to instead of
just
previously like complete the next word
in the sentence, it has to go instead to
hey do two days worth of work to figure
out even if you even did this project
correctly. the amount of information per
uh flop has been decreasing as you had
to unroll two days worth of thinking in
order to see if you even did something
correctly to like did I implement this
feature. The amount of samples per flop
has been decreasing. But so you can
think of um uh you're trying to maximize
as you're learning bits per flop, right?
Um
and this is you can think of bits of per
flop as
um samples
per flop
times um uh bits per sample.
And what I just mentioned uh a second
ago is that the samples per flop go down
as RL becomes more and more long
horizon.
But um at least this kind of naive RL is
also terrible from a bits per sample
perspective. And here's what I mean. At
least compare it to supervised learning.
So early on in training, let's say you
have a
uh vocabulary size for an LLM that is
100k long. So there's 100k possible, you
know, tokens that one could answer. And
you have a totally untrained model. and
you have a prompt like
the sky
is
um with supervised learning you what
would happen is that the model would
have some probability distribution over
all the things it could say um there's a
label that says actually the term here
is blue and it would figure it would
learn basically for cross entropy loss
exactly how far its distribution is from
correctly saying blue now if you were
doing this through RL um you would say
the model would Try the sky is alacon.
Nope, that's wrong. The sky is told.
Nope, that's wrong. This is a totally
untrained model, right? And so you would
have to do this on the order of 100,000
times in order to just stumble on blue,
then get some learning signal off of
that. So if you're in the supervised
learning regime and you just get you
have your distribution of probabilities,
you get told uh that it's blue and you
figure out how far off you are, the
amount you learn is um is a function of
your pass rate. So like the further away
you are from blue, the more you've
learned to go towards blue uh using
cross entropy loss. And so you can think
of it as like your pass rate, your like
prior probability of having said blue.
And um as a function of that like in
supervised learning uh through cross
entropy loss you would you would learn
negative log p being pass rate
>> uh bits
>> once you get this label
>> whereas in RL
if you're just randomly guessing
and seeing if it works or not that's um
that's just basically going to be the
entropy of a binary random variable
which is
And what's also tough here is that
actually the distribution that you're
sampling under is your policies
distribution.
>> Right. So so it's like if your policy
has no chance of sampling blue, then you
will never get a signal. Exactly. Right.
Right. So that's that's being modeled by
the fact that your probability of
sampling blue is extremely low. If you
do sample it, you do learn as much as
you would have learned in a supervised
learning. In all other cases like you
know 99.999% of in an untrained model
you're um you're just learning
incredibly little from like seeing how
is not the correct word or told is not
the correct word. Um and that's what
happens most of the time. So you're just
like um learn very little. So if you try
to graph um if you put on the x-axis
your pass rate
um
and uh here you put the like sort of the
bits you bits you're learning from a
sample
if you have like 0% here 50% here and
100% here. So the end of trading you're
here. Um if you have um
supervised learning negative log pass
rate would look something like this. And
then the uh entropy binary random
variable would look like this.
Um and this is uh depending on whether
you're doing knots or bits.
>> Yeah. If you do bits, it's like one
right here at the at the peak. Um this
is like a coin flip. You learn the most
from a coin flip.
>> Mhm.
uh this is supervised learning this is
RL
however
the problem is you spend most of
training in this regime right like in
the in the low pass rate regime and um
in fact of how fast you're learning is a
function of how many bits per sample
you're getting uh and you're getting
very little signal here if you chart the
pass rate on a log scale so you put the
x axis on a log scale where like at the
beginning of training with a vocap size
of 100k the pass rate is 100 one over
100,000 then one over 10,000
one over 1,000
uh one over 100 and then um okay what
this graph looks like here where
supervised learning would look like this
and
and then RL if you just basically crunch
Right. I just showed there it would look
like that.
>> Yeah. And arguably you spend all your
time here
>> potentially never even getting a single
success, right? Like uh so so it's it's
a sort of depressing plot in the sense
that like once you're here it's not at
all obvious how you get to here.
>> Yeah.
>> Um you know once you're here you have
something but like you actually in many
RL problems spend all the time here.
Yeah. Uh so so there's a sort of
question of like how do you initialize
so you're at least not at zero but like
at a nonzero pass rate. Yeah.
>> Um one more thing I'd like to add about
bits per sample that's very relevant to
um uh you know you know any kind of
machine learning problem is that um
>> and there's a connection to soft targets
and distillation where if you have
access to the logets right not just the
one hot like this this is a sort of one
hot uh token answer.
>> Yeah. um if you have access to the soft
targets um the entropy of this
distribution is far far higher than than
the oneh hot. So there's actually way
more uh there's way more information in
bit and bits per sample um in a soft
label.
>> So that's why distillation is so
effective per sample is that it's
actually giving you way more information
per sample.
>> Ah yeah well I wonder what the equation
would be but obviously
>> it would just be the entropy of this
distribution like so the entropy of this
is zero. Yeah. Um the entropy of this is
like you know the the entropy equation
and this is also why like you know
AlphaGo go is quite beautiful in AlphaGo
you don't train the policy network to
imitate the MCTS action you train it to
imitate the MCTS distribution
>> interesting
>> but both of these are actually valid and
if you wanted to do a scientific
experiment of like how important are
this kind of soft label dark knowledge
distillation you can run an experiment
where you you uh retrain the policy
network on the action MCTS selected
rather than the software
>> interesting
Earlier I was sort of stumbling around
this intuitively. Why is this ability to
do um
iterative search where you don't
necessarily need to be able to win the
game in the beginning? You just need to
be able to improve your current policy.
Why is that so powerful a capability in
learning as compared to how LLM's
currently run learn RL? And um and yeah,
it's exactly this thing of uh this is
considering your pass rate of the entire
trajectory. I actually don't know a
formal way to think about this. Maybe
you should help me out here.
>> Why is AlphaGo an elegant RL algorithm?
Like so um uh the major reason is that
you never have to initialize at a 0%
success rate and solve the exploration
problem of how to get a non-zero success
rate. And and this is what allows you to
hill climb this beautiful supervised
learning signal where and if you look at
the actual implementation of AlphaGo um
every step of the way there's no uh
there's actually no um you know TD error
learning or dynamic programming uh at
least explicitly um it's just supervised
learning on a value classification as
well as a policy uh you know KL
minimization. So it's just a super
supervised learning problem on improved
labels. And so the training is very
stable, right? You can train like as big
of a network as you want. You can kind
of retrain this on the data set.
Everything will just go stably. The
infrastructure is very simple to
implement as well. Um you don't need a
complex distributed system to kind of
keep everything on policy. Um at the end
of the day, you're just saying like I
have some improved labels. Let's retrain
my supervised model on these targets.
Yeah.
>> And and so you're always in this
beautiful regime where you're just
trying to improve the policy
>> rather than uh escape this kind of like
uh sort of local minima where every
every signal is flat all around you. Um
so so one way to draw the the curve is
like if you draw the sort of win rate of
an MCTS policy versus the raw network.
Um let's say this dotted line is the raw
network. The MCTS policy kind of looks
like like this. And so every step of the
way this supervision signal is very
clean,
>> right? You're never in a situation
where, you know, the MCTS is kind of
like giving you no signal. Yeah. Unless
your MCTS distribution converges to
exactly what your policy network
predicts.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Okay. That that that's that's a great
way to explain it.
>> Um,
cool. Okay. Maybe we sit down and I ask
some questions about automated research.
>> Sounds good. One thing I really wanted
to talk to you about is that you did a
bunch of the research for this project
through this kind of automated uh LLM
coding assistant loop. And um there's an
idea that if you fully automated AI
research, you could have some sort of
singularity. Uh obviously we're not
there yet, but to the extent that we
have early indications of what this
process might look like, I am curious
what your observations about um what the
AI is good at, what it's not good at,
what you think about this scenario, it's
likelihood eventually,
what thoughts you have about this in
general.
>> For sure. Yeah, I think automated
scientific research is one of the most
exciting um uh skills that you know the
Frontier Labs are developing right now
and I think it's important for everyone
who's doing any kind of research to get
a good intuition of like what it can do
now and what it can't and how might the
sort of science process work in the
future once we're having AI automating a
lot of this this investigation. Um so uh
in brief I mostly use Opus 4.6 6 and 4.7
throughout the working on this and um
what works is that the models can do a
very good job of doing hyperparameter
optimization. So in the past people
would kind of come up with a search base
of hyperparameters like learning rate
and you know weight decay and maybe how
many layers are in your network and um
they would just kind of do a grid search
or a sort of basian hyperparameter
optimization uh approach and then it
would find some tuned parameters. Um the
kind of really cool thing that automated
uh you know uh coding can do now is that
it can search a much more open-ended set
of problems right it can say like well
um I've identified that like the
gradients are kind of small on this
layer so let me change it up here let me
rewrite the code so the data later data
loader has a new augmentation I came up
with let's uh let's uh sort of try to
find the the best way to kind of fit the
constraints of the optimization problem
and and you end up with this much more
flexible and kind of highlevel almost
like grad studentlike uh ability ility
to just you know grind a performance
metric and and so this can squeeze out
quite a lot of performance. you can you
know on a fixed data set with a fixed
time budget um improve perplexity by
quite a lot on on a sort of
classification problem like LMS or um or
go um and uh it is also fantastic now at
basically executing any experiment right
so I have a a clawed skill that I wrote
called experiment where um I give it a
description of what I wanted to plot and
like I just describe here's the x-axis I
want here's the y- axis answer this
question for me and it'll go run off and
do all the experiments compile the plot
make a report and suggest like you know
what might have caused it or or so
forth. Um so so that's what works quite
well today and I think we can expect
that these abilities get better in the
future but it's also kind of useful to
know you know what what is it not doing
so well today. Um so on my uh blog
version of this tutorial I have a a plot
of basically all the kind of experiments
I did grouped in a sort of tree where um
you know every node kind of represents a
failed successful or sort of mixed
experimental result and then from there
it branches off into a child where it's
like the follow-on experiment. Um,
occasionally I'll kind of rabbit hole
down a track like this off policy MCTS
reabeling, do a few experiments, and
then realize it's probably not worth it.
So then I'll kind of jump to a
completely different track, right? And I
call these kind of things like rows,
right? So So what what I find is that
current uh, you know, closed models that
we can access, the public can access
today, um, they don't seem to be that
great at selecting what the next
experiment should be in a given track.
and they don't seem to be able to kind
of step back and do the lateral thinking
of like wait a minute this track doesn't
really make sense like let's go back to
sort of first principles and and think
about you know what the bottleneck might
be or like what are we trying to achieve
right and and so often I had to catch
infra bugs myself by prompting the right
question to cloud to like investigate
you know why why what what is causing
this discrepancy and then it'll answer
the question um I think with like you
know mythos class models or mythos++
models coming online um maybe this just
completely changes and these these
problems just fall to to just improve
scaling. Um but at the same time I think
there's a lot of like rich opportunity
to um develop RL environments that might
incentivize this kind of lateral
thinking and and so one of the
motivations for setting up this Go
environment was that I think that you
know Go captures a lot of very
interesting research problems often
overlapping with you know LLMs or
robotics and yet it's like very quick to
verify. Um the outer loop is ultimately
like does the agent do what I think it
does in and you can kind of check the
outcome of a go game quite easily. Um
and then the inner loop involves all
this kind of like you know research
engineering around distributed systems
uh predicting whether an idea is going
to work or not. um predicting the you
know the difference a particular
modification to your training algorithm
might make um and I think there's a rich
library of subtasks and sub environments
that you can kind of train an automated
scientist to work on uh with go as a
sort of outer verification loop that
then once you acquire these skills maybe
you can apply them to like other domains
like uh you know um biosciences or
robotics
>> or automating AI research
>> or automating II research
>> which is which is the real crux or the
um scary slash uh incredible thing for
just making AI making future versions of
AIS and you're suggesting the outer loop
here could just be your win rate against
Katago basically.
>> Um that's one of them. Um I think
there's a lot of deeper questions that
one could tackle, right? So for example
um let's say you have an idea on um how
to improve a scaling law compute
multiplier. Yeah.
>> Um the outcome isn't necessarily like I
I uh achieve the best gobot ever. The
outcome might just be like can I predict
what the win rate of my gobot will be?
Yeah.
>> Or can I predict the scaling law plots
that emerge from my idea? But then you
can verify that you haven't kind of
reward hacked anything by using a very
verifiable game like go on the outer
loop.
>> I I think there's a couple of
interesting follow- on questions.
There's questions on the inner loop and
the outer loop. On the inner loop,
there's a question of how locally
verifiable any modification you might
make is. That is to say, could would you
know whether something is actually an
improvement or a degradation, some idea
you try out? Would you know that if
something isn't working as a result of
um a bug or is it the result of the idea
itself being wrong? Um Ilia was talking
about why having one of the reasons he
he thinks he's a good researcher is he
is a good researcher. One of the things
he thinks makes him a good researcher is
that um he has intuition about he has
strong belief in what the correct idea
is and he is able to persevere through
bugs and know which things are bugs
versus mistakes in the fundamental idea
based on his high level belief about
this idea should work so therefore it's
this there has to be bug versus the
other way around. Why don't we start
with that question actually? Yeah. How
locally verifiable are things which are
good ideas? Yeah, I think as in the case
of the success story for deep learning,
you can think about this as like a
decadesl long idea that took like took a
lot of faith to get it to work.
>> Um, and so this presents a very
challenging long horizon, you know, RL
problem where you know, every every step
of the way you have like a committee
telling you that this is a bad idea and
then ultimately you break it through,
right? And so like how do you design RL
environments that maybe give you some
feedback uh uh earlier? Um and and I
think this is a very tough open question
that I don't have an answer to, but um
but you know ultimately to play a very
strong gobot you probably did need to
discover deep learning.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And so um um I think that like
having a challenging game that cannot be
you know cheated easily on the outer
loop could be used as a sort of outer
loop signal for something like
discovering the principles of deep
learning. Now of course like to make it
tractable and this is where research
taste really matters um like you have to
come up with ways to initialize your
problem so that you don't solve a sort
of very intractable problem right like
like maybe you can leverage LLMs as as a
sort of a universal grammar in the
middle to kind of give give you some
sort of local feedback um um the fact
that LM are universal grammar means that
they can kind of move at almost any
level of the stack right they can think
very locally as well as step back and
think like in very broad steps and I
think that's where a lot of u um the the
lateral thinking ability of humans kind
of come from like like how to know if
the track that you're pursuing or the
objective that you're pursuing is not
right and you should be asking a
different question.
>> The uh the other question is how
stackable local improvements are in the
attempt to get to a better result on the
outer loop. Um I've heard rumors that at
some AI labs the thing that has gone
wrong is that people will individually
pursue good ideas. um but those don't
end up stacking well and so the training
run falls because of some weird uh
interaction between two seemingly good
ideas and having a single top down
vision of how things should work is very
important. Um having worked at uh
different AI labs and also playing
around with I guess parallel agents
trying different ideas what is your
sense of how parallelizable um AI
innovation is?
>> Yeah, great question. Um
I think the research taste for executing
well on you know the bitter lesson is
that you need to know how much the
bitter lesson can buy you and uh how
much is too much to ask for at any given
moment right like of course in the
fullness of time compute kind of is the
single most important determinant on
like how things work and uh and and uh
it's almost like inevitable that as you
scale up energy and compute uh and
parameters intelligence will just fall
out of that and that's super super
beautiful, super profound. No
algorithmic detail really matters beyond
that. But um in present day we don't
have infinite compute and parameters and
and in arbitrarily good initialization.
So we have to come up with like
heristics that kind of give us that but
these heristics are probably somewhat
redundant. So that's probably why you
see this effect where like a lot of
these compute multipliers don't
necessarily stack is that like they
might have some correlated benefit. Um
and then and then you know three years
down the line when the Nvidia GPUs have
gotten even stronger maybe maybe they
stack even less well right like maybe
like at any given point in time the the
the sort of benefit of any given compute
multiplier is transitory which is what I
sort of suspected with the Kadiggo paper
like there was many
>> algorithmic ideas kind of applied and
then you can see that like with you know
modern blackwell GPUs and ADA class GPUs
that are much better than the sort of
V100 uh grade GPUs that that paper used
um you can see that like some of these
algor algorithmic tricks to speed up
convergence just don't matter so much
compared to something else and I think
that's a matter of taste in a in the
present time
>> yeah interesting how about the outer
loop how verifiable for making AI
smarter with go you do have this outer
loop of um win rate against the best
open source model out there and even
there as you were saying there are other
outer loops of did you discover a new
phenomenon which is actually very hard
to if you didn't know scaling laws were
important if you're back in when was
chinchilla or Kaplan scaling laws
released like 2019
>> yeah so if you're back in 2015 would you
there's not an automated procedure one
can easily imagine of uh knowing which
paper is the scaling loss paper versus
which is just like another random plot
and so that even in the go case is a
hard to verify outer loop and the whole
the whole idea of an outer loop is to
have like some backs stop on um on
improvement. Uh but let alone for
general AGI where of course we have a
bunch of these benchmarks but there's a
problem that like we know the things we
can measure and we improve on the things
we can measure but we're we care about
this broader ability to do economically
useful work which is um at least until
you automate everything easy and not not
super easy to measure. Um so yeah
there's a there's a question of okay how
how good is the outer verification loop
for uh for AI self-improvement and does
that matter?
>> Yeah. Um I'm going to give a
non-rigorous argument but one that I
kind of intuitively believe which is
that you know um DeepMind the AI
research lab um they started as a sort
of focus on games right like they they
kind of use games as their outer loop
and then the researchers learned uh from
experience of solving games and then
like now they're working on LMS and
presumably there was some positive
transfer from their time working on
games and like Atari and Go and and uh
you know Starcraft that like now helps
them make good LMS like I assume that
there's like positive transfer in some
regard whether it's coding or general
research ability or project management
right like all these things kind of like
probably help them do well um and so if
that's the case why wouldn't it also be
true for automated AI researchers like
they should be able to positively
transfer experience tackling quick to
verify uh quick to iterate on
environments to something more ambitious
and economically useful like uh you know
automating drug discovery or so forth
>> I mean I don't know isn't the hasn't the
issue with historically until Gemini 3
or whatever been a couple years ago
people were saying look Google hasn't uh
isn't catching up in LLMs because
they're too tight to the old approach
and yeah there's gains but there's also
um there's ways in which actively
hinders you um so it's actually not
obvious to me that there's like
>> the jury is still out right like I I
think like who knows if the you know
let's say currently Hey, Google's doing
quite well. Who knows if the uh
initialization on training on games is
ultimately going to hobble their ability
to be the winner in the long term,
right? Like like uh it's it's hard to
say for sure. Um
>> and uh you know, likewise, who knows if
the late seeming late start was really
just them kind of pre-training for
longer on how how to like scale up TPUs,
right? they invested all their tech tree
in like uh getting TPUs to be good which
seemed not that useful in the short term
but then in the long term it becomes
maybe like a uh so it's it's even hard
for humans to reason about what the
optimal research strategy should be
right even with the the data we have
today.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Um okay we should let
people know how they can find out more
about this project whether to fork it
themselves whether to check out your
blog where you do an excellent job
explaining many of these ideas. Um uh
where do people go next?
>> Great. Yeah. So my my website is
evjang.com. The there's a blog post that
kind of links to a interactive version
of this tutorial. Um and on my GitHub uh
which is the username is just eric Jang.
Uh there's a there's a autogo repo that
people can fork and reproduce the uh
training results. And I also highly
recommend people check out this blog
post as rocks may think which we touch
on some of the ideas in this
conversation but it's this grander
you know um thesis of what happens when
you have uh thinking as a primitive in
>> computer science.
>> Exactly right. Uh and so I highly
recommend people check out that blog
list as well.
>> Yeah. And I encourage to the you know
the audience to you know think about the
relationship between thinking and go you
know via MCTS and search and how it
relates to LMS. I think there's
something quite like profound there. um
and probably underexplored just because
Go has been relatively underexplored
compared to you know the boom in LMS. Um
it's not to say that I think we should
have trees in our in our LMS but um but
but there is some very interesting
duality between them and you can
actually do a lot of research on go um
MCTS and and reasoning with you know
very small budgets. So that's very
exciting.
>> Cool. Awesome. Eric, thanks for doing
this. It's it's an honor to be on the